WELCOME TO
THE TUESDAY, JULY 16TH, TWENTY
TWENTY FOUR REGULAR MEETING
OF THE AND REPLANNING
COMMISSION FOR DETAILED
INFORMATION ON MEETING
PROCEDURES PLEASE REVIEW THE
FULL PRINTED MEETING AGENDA
PROVIDED KELLY WILL YOU PLEASE
CALL THE ROLL?
>> WITH PLEASURE TO TERRY.
I AM HERE NOTING THAT VICE
CHAIR APRON'S WILL BE ABSENT
SECRETARY HERE COMMISSIONER
MILLS' HERE COMMISSIONER
HAMMERSCHMIDT HERE COUNSEL MY
DISH HERE COMMISSIONER RATHER
BE HERE COMMISSIONER ADAMS HERE
AND WELCOME TO NEW COMMISSIONER
NORTON HERE WE HAVE A QUORUM.
>> THANK YOU AND I'D LIKE TO
TAKE A QUICK SECOND TO
INTRODUCE OUR NEWEST
COMMISSIONER COMMISSIONER IF
YOU WANTED TO GIVE A QUICK
INTRODUCTION AND SPEAK A LITTLE
BIT ABOUT YOURSELF.
UH, SURE.
>> CAN YOU HEAR ME?
YES, WE CAN QUICKLY.
OH, OK.
UM, I'M NORTON.
I'M A LONGTIME RESIDENT OF ANN
ARBOR SINCE 2001 I'VE BEEN A
PROFESSOR OF URBAN AND REGIONAL
PLANNING IN THE TIME IN COLLEGE
FOR THAT WHOLE TIME I'M A
COMMUNITY PLANNER AND A LAWYER.
I TEACH PLANNING LAW AND LAND
USE ENVIRONMENTAL PLANNING AND
UH I LIVE IN THE OLD WEST SIDE
NOW AND HAVE BEEN ASKED TO JOIN
AND CONTRIBUTE TO THE PLANNING
COMMISSION AND I FINALLY SAID
YES, I WOULD PUT MY STEP
FORWARD TO DO THAT.
SO I'M DELIGHTED TO BE HERE.
I'M REALLY LOOKING FORWARD TO
WORKING WITH YOU ALL AND
LEARNING ABOUT THE REAL WAY
THAT PLANNING WORKS IN ANN
ARBOR FROM INSIDE.
>> SO THANK YOU FOR HAVING ME
JOIN YOU.
>> THANK YOU, COMMISSIONER
NORTON.
AND WE ARE CERTAINLY LUCKY TO
HAVE
YOU AS WELL.
>> ALL RIGHT.
WITH THAT I'M GOING TO MOVE TO
THE APPROVAL OF A MAY I HAVE A
MOTION TO APPROVE THE AGENDA
UH, COMMISSIONER WHICH IS
SECONDED BY COUNCIL MEMBER DISH
ALL THOSE IN FAVOR OF THE
MOTION PLEASE SAY I I ANY
OPPOSED SEEING NONE THE MOTION
CARRIES THEY HAVE A MOTION TO
APPROVE THE MINUTES OF THE JUNE
20TH TWENTY TWENTY FOUR MEETING
MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER AND
SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER
WHETHER IT BE ANY DISCUSSION
OF THE MINUTES ALL THOSE IN
FAVOR PLEASE SAY I I ANY
OPPOSED SEEING NONE THE MOTION
CARRIES.
>> NEXT UP ARE REPORTS OF THE
PLANNING COMMISSION AND WRITTEN
COMMUNICATIONS.
WE WILL START WITH COUNCIL
MEMBER DISH.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
IT IS WITH GREAT PLEASURE THAT
I TELL YOU THAT THE SOUTHTOWN
REZONING TO PERMIT MICROGRID
OPERATION WAS APPROVED LAST
NIGHT BY COUNCIL AND SINCE YOU
LAST SAW THIS PROJECT THERE WAS
A REVISION TO THE DEVELOPMENT
AGREEMENT AND THAT REVISION
PROVIDES THAT RATHER THAN
CONTRACT FOR RENEWABLE NATURAL
GAS WITH A DAIRY FARM, THE
PETITIONER THE PETITIONER WILL
SOURCE IT FROM DTI WHICH
LESSONS AND POSSIBLY EVEN COMES
CLOSE TO ELIMINATING RELIANCE
ON OR HOWEVER YOU SEE IT
COMPLICITY WITH INDUSTRIAL
AGRICULTURE TO POWER THE
FUELCELL.
SO THAT WAS A WELCOME CHANGE
AND THANKS TO SOME INTERVENTION
FROM MEMBERS OF THE
ENVIRONMENTAL COMMISSION ANYWAY
SO AND THE OWL CREEK INFILL
PROJECT RECEIVED APPROVAL ON
FIRST READING AND IT MOVES
AHEAD TO A PUBLIC HEARING AND
FINAL APPROVAL SOMETIME SOON IN
THE FUTURE.
>> I THINK ALSO OF INTEREST TO
YOU IS THAT COUNCIL APPROVED A
SOUTH STATE STREET BUSINESS
IMPROVEMENT ZONE OR BUSI AND
THIS IS AN IMPORTANT EARLY
INDICATOR LIKE THOSE LITTLE
SHOOTS OF SPRING THAT ONE
ZONING MAY BE HAVING THE
TRANSFORMATIVE EFFECT THAT WE
SO HOPED IT WOULD.
>> AND FINALLY WE APPROVED THE
ANNEXATIONS AND REZONING
OF BOTH AAPS PROPERTIES A
PUBLIC LAND.
>> THANK YOU.
UM, MOVING TO MANAGER REPORT
LEONARD GOOD EVENING
COMMISSION.
JUST ONE ITEM I WANTED TO
UPDATE YOU UM PUBLIC THAT THE
STEERING COMMITTEE FOR THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN WILL HOLD
OUR NEXT MEETING TOMORROW
EVENING THAT BE HELD AT THE
WEST GATE LIBRARY UM UH TO
AVOID I DON'T KNOW I THINK
THERE MIGHT BE SOMETHING GOING
ON DOWNTOWN AND UH, JUST AS A
REMINDER, FOLKS WHO DON'T DON'T
THAT IS AN IN-PERSON ONLY
MEETING BUT THE CONTENT IS
TYPICALLY SHARED W THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN SUBCOMMITTEE
OF THIS BODY WHICH WILL ALSO BE
BROADCAST WE ASSUME NEXT
TUESDAY EVENING.
THANK YOU.
DO OTHER COMMISSIONER OFFICERS
OR COMMITTEE LIAISONS HAVE
ANYTHING TO REPORT?
>> ALL RIGHT.
WRITTEN COMMUNICATIONS ARE
INCLUDED IN TODAY'S PACKET.
>> WE'LL MOVE ON TO PUBLIC
COMMENT.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
INDIVIDUALS TO SPEAK UP THE
THREE MINUTES ON AN ISSUE THAT
IS NOT LISTED AS A PUBLIC
HEARING ITEM.
WELL, FIRST HEAR FROM THOSE
PRESENT AND THEN REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK REMOTELY
PLEASE PRESS STAR NINE IF BY
PHONE OR USE A RAISE HAND
OF RAISED HAND FEATURE IN ZOOM
FOR PHONE ACCESS PLEASE CALL
EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT FIVE
THREE FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN AND
ENTER MEETING NINE SEVEN SEVEN
SIX SIX THREE FOUR ONE TWO TWO
SIX.
>> CITY STAFF WILL IDENTIFY
CALLERS BY THE LAST THREE
DIGITS OF YOUR PHONE NUMBER OR
BY ZOOME IF AVAILABLE AND
YOU'LL HEAR AN AUTOMATED
ANNOUNCEMENT WHEN IT'S YOUR
TURN TO SPEAK PLEASE MOVE TO A
QUIET AREA AND ANY BACKGROUND
NOISE WE CAN HEAR YOU CLEARLY
WE'RE ALL PARTICIPANTS PLEASE
STATE YOUR NAME AND YOUR
ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING
OF YOUR COMMENTS AND IS THERE
ANYONE PRESENT WHO WOULD LIKE
TO SPEAK AT THIS TIME?
MR. GARBER, THANK YOU CLEARLY
KEN GARBER TWENTY EIGHT HENRY
HOMECOURT ON BEHALF OF THE
PUBLIC SUCH AS WE ARE TONIGHT
I'D LIKE TO WELCOME
COMMISSIONER NORTON TO THE TO
HIS BODY.
>> THANK YOU FOR TAKING ON THIS
THANKLESS TASK.
FRANKLY AND I APPRECIATE YOUR
PUBLIC SERVICE TONIGHT.
I WANT TO TALK TO THE
COMMISSIONER ABOUT UDC HEIGHT
EXCEPTION THAT'S NOT ON
TONIGHT'S AGENDA.
>> YOU'VE HEARD ME BEFORE ON
THIS SO MY APOLOGIES FOR THAT
AT YOUR SEPTEMBER 19TH MEETING
LAST YEAR YOU ELIMINATED OUR
PREMIUMS AND OUR LIMITS AND ONE
AND TWO AND COUNCIL FINALIZED
THAT IN DECEMBER ALL OF A
SUDDEN THE MAXIMUM HEIGHT WHICH
IS ONE HUNDRED AND FIFTY FEET D
ONE IN SIXTY FEET AND D TWO
BECAME A MAIN FOCUS FOR
DOWNTOWN DEVELOPERS SINCE THEY
DIDN'T HAVE TO WORRY ABOUT IF
THEY ARE ANYMORE UNTIL THAT
POINT FDR WAS THE LIMITING
FACTOR BECAUSE THE FORMAL
HEIGHT LIMIT REALLY WAS OFTEN
NOT REACHED.
>> KNOWING THIS, I ASKED YOU IN
SEPTEMBER TO CONSIDER REVISING
THE HEIGHT EXCEPTION FOR
SUSTAINABILITY THAT SECTION
FIVE EIGHTEEN OR D ONE
CURRENTLY READS QUOTE THE
HEIGHT LIMITS OF THIS CHAPTER
MAY BE INCREASED BY UP TO 30
PERCENT WHEN THE FOLLOWING
CONDITIONS ARE MET.
ONE THE DEVELOPMENT HAS AN
AFFORDABLE HOUSING COMPONENT OR
A SUSTAINABILITY COMPONENT END
QUOTE.
>> NO DEVELOPER HAS SHOWN
INTEREST IN THE AFFORDABILITY
HOUSING HEIGHT EXCEPTION BUT
THEY'RE STARTING TO GO FOR
SUSTAINABILITY.
>> THIS ISN'T NECESSARILY GOOD
AND I'LL EXPLAIN WHY THE
DEFINITION OF SUSTAINABILITY
COMPONENT IS ON PAGE NINETY
OF THE UDC AND BASICALLY
REQUIRES THAT 60 PERCENT THE
ROOF HAS SOLAR PANELS AND THAT
IT'S ELECTRIFICATION READY
INCLUDING ELECTRICAL PANEL
UPGRADE AND CONDUIT TO ENABLE
CONVERSION TO AN ELECTRIC
BUILDING BACK IN MAY I TOLD YOU
THE CORE SPACE IS INTENDED TO
GO NINETEEN STOREYS AT SIX
ELEVEN CHURCH UP FROM FOURTEEN
STOREYS CITING 518 FORTY ONE
THEY'LL PUT IN THE SOLAR PANELS
WHICH WILL ONLY MEET A SMALL
FRACTION OF THE BUILDING'S
ENERGY DEMAND AND THEY'LL RUN
SOME CONDUIT TO THEIR ROOFTOP
BOILER FOR A THEORETICAL FUTURE
CONVERSION TO ELECTRIC NOW
WHAT'S NEW IS THAT LAST
THURSDAY AT THE CITIZEN
PURCHASE AND PARTICIPATION
MEETING FOR TWELVE THIRTEEN
SOUTH UNIVERSITY THAT DEVELOPER
ALSO INVOKED FIVE EIGHTEEN
FORTY ONE TO JUSTIFY GOING
NINETEEN STORIES ANOTHER HUGE
TOWER ONCE AGAIN SOLAR SOME
ELECTRICAL PANEL UPGRADES AND
CONDUIT NOTHING MORE PROMISED.
>> I SEE THIS IS A MAJOR
LOOPHOLE THAT'S DEVELOPING JUST
PUT IN SOME SOLAR UPGRADE A FEW
ELECTRICAL PANELS, ADD A BIT
OF CONDUIT AND YOU CAN PUMP 30
PERCENT HIGHER IN D1 AND D2 THE
INTENT OF FIVE EIGHTEEN FORTY
ONE IS TO INCENTIVIZE
SUSTAINABILITY BUT THESE
BUILDINGS ARE ACTUALLY LESS
SUSTAINABLE BECAUSE YOU'LL NEED
TO HEAT THIRTY PERCENT MORE
SPACE WITH FOSSIL GAS AT LEAST
FOR NOW AND I WOULDN'T COUNT ON
RETROFITS ANY TIME SOON.
>> SO I EXCUSE ME MR. GARBER
YOUR TIME IS UP.
>> EXCUSE ME.
SORRY.
>> OH ALL GOOD THANK YOU.
TIMER'S NOT WORKING.
OH THE TIMER WAS FAILED TO BE
INITIATED BY THE MANAGER
LENNART.
IT WAS UP ON THE BOARD THOUGH.
THANK YOU.
IS THERE ANYBODY ELSE WHO WOULD
LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS TIME
SEEING THAT DO WE HAVE ANY
REMOTE CALLERS THERE?
>> NO HANDS RAISED AT THIS
TIME, MR. CHAIR.
ALL RIGHT.
JUST A FEW MORE MINUTES WITH
THAT WE'LL CLOSE PUBLIC
COMMENT.
WE'RE GOING TO MOVE ON TO
AGENDA NUMBER SEVEN PUBLIC
HEARINGS SCHEDULED FOR THE NEXT
BUSINESS MEETING.
STAFF OH FOR THE AUGUST
MEETINGS THERE.
WE'RE ON YOUR CALENDAR AUGUST
7TH AND AUGUST 20TH, THE AUGUST
7TH MEETING IS IN PROCESS
OF CANCELATION DUE TO NO
PETITIONS BEING READY FOR
CONSIDERATION AND THE AUGUST
20TH MEETING NOTICING DEADLINE
IS NOT HERE YET SO NO PETITIONS
ARE NOTICED AT THIS TIME.
THANK YOU.
MOVING ON TO UNFINISHED
BUSINESS THERE ARE NONE.
SO WE'LL GO RIGHT ON TO OUR
FIRST REGULAR BUSINESS ITEM
WHICH IS TWENTY NINE HUNDRED
SOUTH MAIN THIS IS CP TWENTY
TWO DASH TWENTY TWENTY THREE.
THIS IS A SITE PLAN FOR
PLANNING COMMISSION APPROVAL.
THIS IS A PROPOSAL TO CONSTRUCT
A NEW THIRTY SIX THOUSAND EIGHT
HUNDRED SEVENTY TWO SQUARE FOOT
FOUR STOREY RESIDENTIAL
BUILDING CONTAINING FORTY FIVE
UNITS.
THE PROJECT WILL HAVE A SINGLE
TEST DRIVE FROM SOUTH MAIN TO A
PARKING LOT AND AN
UNDERSTRUCTURE PARKING FOR
FORTY FIVE VEHICLES.
>> THE PARCEL IS ZONED OUT AND
A STAFF RECOMMENDATION IS
APPROVAL AND WE WILL START WITH
THE PETITIONER PRESENTATION.
>> MR. SHEARING MR. MALEO AND
ATTWELL.
I CAN PUT IT UP ON THE TOP.
THANK YOU
.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
GOOD EVENING.
MY NAME IS JASON KREGER WITH
KREGER KLETT ARCHITECTS FOUR
HUNDRED EAST LINCOLN AND ROYAL
OAK FORD 067 HAVE LAURENCE
MEYER WITH US.
HE'S THE DEVELOPER AND OWNER
AND CUYLER FROM THIS AS WELL.
>> SO WE PUT TOGETHER A BRIEF
PRESENTATION TO SHARE WITH
EVERYBODY AND THEN WE'RE
AVAILABLE FOR QUESTIONS.
>> YOU WANT TO ADD ANYTHING?
PLEASE, PLEASE DO SO.
>> OK, SO THE ADDRESS IS TWENTY
NINE HUNDRED SOUTH MAIN.
THIS IS THE PROJECT LOCATION
JUST NORTH OF THE MALL AS
MENTIONED IT'S A FOUR STORY
MULTIFAMILY BUILDING WITH FORTY
FIVE RESIDENTIAL UNITS.
IT'S A MIXTURE OF STUDIOS' ONES
AND TWO BEDS.
WE HAVE ABOUT FIFTEEN HUNDRED
SQUARE FEET OF INTERIOR AMENITY
SPACE LOOSLEY PROGRAM BUT
REALLY JUST COMMON AREAS FOR
THE FOLKS WHO LIVE THERE AND WE
HAVE FORTY FIVE PARKING SPACES
SO IT'S PART ONE TO ONE ONE
STAFF PER UNIT AND THEN WE HAVE
FIFTY FOUR PARKING SPACES.
>> WE HAVE A LITTLE I DON'T
NEED TO READ THROUGH ALL
OF THIS BUT WHAT WE WANTED TO
DO IS TOUCH ON SOME OF THE
SUSTAINABLE ITEMS THAT WE
ARE
GOING TO PURSUE RIGHT NOW THIS
IS A PRE MSA MOSTLY ALL
ELECTRIC BUILDING.
WE MAY DO A ROOFTOP UNIT FOR
THE COMMON AREAS.
>> WE'RE LOOKING INTO WAYS TO
NOT DO THAT.
THE REASON WHY I SAY MAY IS
BECAUSE THE COMMON AREAS
REQUIRE MUCH MORE FRESH AIR AND
IT'S HARD TO GET THAT WITH JUST
ELECTRIC UNITS.
SO WHAT WE'VE DONE IN OTHER
PROJECTS IS WE'LL DO A GAS FIRE
ROOFTOP UNIT JUST FOR THE
COMMON AREAS.
BUT AGAIN WE WANT THIS TO BE AS
ENERGY EFFICIENT AS POSSIBLE SO
WE'RE LOOKING INTO DIFFERENT
SYSTEMS TO TAKE CARE OF THE
COMMON AREAS.
BUT EVERYTHING ELSE IN THE
BUILDING IS GOING TO BE
ELECTRIC HEAT PUMPS SO ELECTRIC
AS WE CAN GET.
>> SPEAKING OF ELECTRIC, WE
HAVE FIVE EV CHARGING STATIONS
AND WE'RE GOING TO PREP FORTY
SO THAT AS DEMAND GOES UP THE
OWNER CAN PUT MORE STATIONS IN
AND THOSE ARE WITHIN THE
GARAGE.
>> THERE'S NONE PLANNED OUTSIDE
CURRENTLY THERE MENTION IN THE
LETTER THAT WE RECEIVED ABOUT
AGING IN PLACE THIS IS AN AGING
IN PLACE BUILDING.
IT'S AN ELEVATOR BUILDING.
I THINK ALL UNITS ARE TYPE B I
THINK TWO PERCENT OF THEM ARE
TYPE A WHICH MEANS THEY HAVE
THE THE GRAB BARS AND THINGS
LIKE THAT.
>> THERE WAS A COMMENT ABOUT
DEMOLITION DEMOLITION, WASTE
MANAGEMENT.
THAT'S SOMETHING THAT WE'RE
GOING TO PURSUE WITH THE
CONTRACTOR BECAUSE IT HAS TO DO
WITH DEAL WITH HAULING THINGS
OFF SITE AND HOW GETS DISPOSED
OF .
WE ARE PLANNING ON COMPOSTING
SO THE TRASH RECEPTACLE OR THE
TRASH BIN IS SIZE LARGE ENOUGH
FOR US TO DO SOME COMPOSTING
BINS AND WE ARE GOING TO PURSUE
AN ENERGY STAR CERTIFIED
BUILDING.
>> THERE'S A LOT THAT GOES TO
THAT BUT THAT IS OUR TARGET IS
TO HIT THAT AND AT THE VERY
LEAST WE WILL HAVE ALL OF THE
ENERGY EFFICIENT APPLIANCES,
LIGHTS, UPGRADED INSULATION
PACKAGE THINGS THAT WILL HELP
TO REDUCE ANY KIND OF BURDEN ON
THE GRID.
THIS IS THE SITE PLAN.
SO NORTH IS UP AND THIS IS MEAN
HERE.
>> THE DARK GRAY REPRESENTS THE
BUILDING FOOTPRINT TO THE WEST.
THIS IS ALL WETLANDS AND WE'RE
PRESERVING ALL OF THAT AS
MENTIONED, WE HAVE A SINGLE
DRIVE THAT COMES IN ON THE
NORTH.
OUR TRASH IS UP OUR TRASH BIN
IS OUT HERE AND THEN THIS IS
JUST SHOWING THE TURNING RADIUS
OF A TRUCK THEY CAN PULL IN AND
OUT.
YOU CAN SEE THAT THIS IS ALL
THE PARKING BELOW THE BUILDING
AND THEN THIS RIGHT HERE IS
WHERE OUR COMMON AREA WOULD BE
AND THEN WE HAVE SOME OUTDOOR
PARKING HERE AS WELL.
THIS IS THE GROUND FLOOR PLAN
AGAIN INTERIOR TRASH BINS AND
THEN IT WOULD TAKE THEM OUT
TRASH DAY STADIUM AND THE TRUCK
WOULD COME TAKE THEM AWAY TO
STAIRWELLS INTERIOR PARKING AND
THEN THIS PEACH AND YELLOW AREA
OVER HERE REPRESENTS OUR
CLUBHOUSE SPACE.
THEN AS YOU GO UP IT'S A DOUBLE
LOADED CORRIDOR.
YOU KNOW, TWO MEANS OF EGRESS
ELEVATOR AND THEN WE HAVE OUR
MIX OF UNITS ON EACH FLOOR.
THESE ARE OUR ELEVATIONS AND WE
HAVE SOME RENDERINGS AT THE
BACK END THAT I'LL SHARE WITH
YOU GUYS.
>> SO IT'S PRIMARILY A BRICK
BUILDING AS BRICK METAL TRIM
AND THEN WE HAVE LAP SIDING
THAT'S REPRESENTED BY THIS
BEIGE HERE AND YOU KNOW, WE SEE
THIS AS AN OPPORTUNITY BRICK IS
HIGHLY RECYCLABLE SO AS ALL THE
METAL TRIM AND WE CAN SOURCE
THAT LOCALLY ENOUGH THAT SHOULD
COMPLY WITH THOSE RULES.
>> YOU CAN SEE THERE'S QUITE A
FALL OFF FOR THE GRADE AND
THAT'S WHAT REALLY HELPS THIS.
THE SITE ACTUALLY WORK FROM A
PARKING STANDPOINT IT'S A
LITTLE CHALLENGING FROM A
CONSTRUCTION STANDPOINT THERE'S
GOING TO BE A LOT OF COSTS AND
FOUNDATIONS AND EVERYTHING BUT
I THINK IT WOULD BE REALLY NEAT
WHERE WE GET TO PRESERVE THE
WETLANDS ON THE WEST SEEMS
TOUCHY.
>> SO NOW WE HAVE A COUPLE
OF RENDERINGS OF THE BUILDING.
IT'S USED FOR STORAGE THAT I
JUST MENTIONED ABOUT THE
MATERIALS.
>> I THINK IT'S A NICE
CONTEMPORARY LOOK
AND THAT
THAT'S OUR PRESENTATION TO
ANYTHING AND NO, WE CAN'T DO
ANYTHING.
>> ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU EVERYBODY FOR
LISTENING FOR QUESTIONS.
>> PERFECT.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> AND THEN WE'LL MOVE ON TO
STAFF PRESENTATION.
MR. KOWALSKI, THANK YOU.
GOOD EVENING BY THE COMMISSION.
OK, SO I WANTED TO START WITH
KIND OF THE OVERALL HIGHLIGHTS
OF THE PROPOSAL YOU HAVE BEFORE
ARE THERE'S TWO MOTIONS THAT
ARE INCLUDED THAT WOULD BE NEED
TO BE APPROVED FOR TONIGHT.
THE FIRST ONE IS OBVIOUSLY JUST
THE SIGHT PLAN MOTION ITSELF.
THE SECOND ONE IS A MOTION THAT
WOULD APPROVE AN ALTERNATIVE
MITIGATION.
THE ALTERNATE MITIGATION IS
REQUIRED DUE TO THE AMOUNT
OF TREES BEING REMOVED BUT ALSO
THE LACK OF BASICALLY AVAILABLE
SPACE ON SITE.
YOU'RE ALLOWED TO CONTRIBUTE TO
THE FUND FOR ANYTHING LESS THAN
50 PERCENT.
SO AT LEAST 50 PERCENT HAS TO
BE MITIGATED ON SITE OVER THAT.
>> YOU CAN HAVE THE
CONTRIBUTION TO THE FUND.
SO AGAIN DUE TO THE LARGE
NUMBER OF THE TREES ON THE
SITE, THE CITY FORESTER HAS
APPROVED THAT THAT MITIGATION
MOUNT A COUPLE OF HIGHLIGHTS
OF THE PROPOSAL HERE.
>> AGAIN, AS ALREADY MENTIONED
,45 UNITS THERE'S THERE'S A
MIX OF UNITS FROM ONE BEDROOMS
,TWO BEDROOMS AND SOME STUDIOS
AS WELL.
THE PARKING RATIO AGAIN AS
MENTIONED ONE SPACE PER UNIT
THERE SIGNIFICANTLY MORE
BICYCLE PARKING.
THAT IS WHAT IS REQUIRED.
THERE'S A LITTLE BIT OVER ONE
BICYCLE SPACE PER UNIT
INCLUDING CLASS EIGHT SPACES
WHICH ARE THE ONES THAT ARE
FULLY ENCLOSED WITHIN EITHER A
ROOM OR A LOCKER OR ANOTHER KEY
FEATURE OF THIS PROPOSAL REALLY
IS AND I DIDN'T REALLY ACTUALLY
NOTICE THIS UNTIL WE WENT OUT
TO THE SITE IS THAT THERE IS A
SIDEWALK UP ON THAT SIDE OF S
MAIN AND THERE'S A WELL-WORN
PATH THAT YOU CAN SEE CLEARLY
GOING THROUGH THAT AREA.
SO THIS THIS PROJECT ALTHOUGH
IT WOULD BE REQUIRED FROM ANY
PROJECT AT THE SITE OF COURSE
THIS PROJECT IS INSTALLING A
NEW I BELIEVE IT'S TEN TEN FOOT
WIDE PUBLIC PATHWAY THAT WILL
LINE UP OBVIOUSLY DIRECTLY WITH
THE PATH TO THE NORTH AS WELL
TO THE SOUTH STORMWATER SITE IS
VACANT NOW CLEARLY STORMWATER
EXISTS.
THEY DO HAVE TO DO ONE HUNDRED
AND TWENTY PERCENT.
THEY HAVE DO THE BONUS BECAUSE
OF THE LACK OF INFILTRATION ON
THE SITE.
>> WHAT WAS ALREADY MENTIONED
AS WELL AS THE WETLAND THERE IS
A SMALL TO MEDIUM SIZED WETLAND
KIND OF TO THE REAR OF THE SITE
WITH SOME LANDMARK TREES AROUND
THAT AS WELL.
>> THAT AREA WAS SHOWN ON THE
PLAN IS IS BEING PRESERVED.
THEY'RE NOT GOING ANYWHERE NEAR
WITHIN THAT BOUNDARY.
WE HAVE A TWENTY FIVE FOOT
WETLAND BOUNDARY AS WELL AS THE
WETLAND AREA ITSELF.
>> SO THAT BUFFER IS BEING
PROTECTED AND THEN REALLY AGAIN
HIGHLIGHTED BY THE PETITIONER
WE JUST WANTED TO TOUCH ON THAT
THE INDIVIDUAL RESIDENTIAL
UNITS THEMSELVES WILL BE
ELECTRIC HEAT.
>> HOWEVER, THERE IS A NATURAL
GAS CONNECTION TO THE BUILDING
ITSELF.
>> THE PROJECT DOES HAVE A
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT WITH IT.
THE DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT IS
REQUIRED BECAUSE THEY HAVE A AS
I MENTIONED PREVIOUSLY, THE
MITIGATION CONTRIBUTION AS WELL
AS THE PARK'S CONTRIBUTION.
SO ALTHOUGH THE PLAN COULD BE
APPROVED TONIGHT BY PLANNING
COMMISSION, THE DEVELOPMENT
AGREEMENT WILL NEED TO PROCEED
TO CITY COUNCIL FOR FINAL
APPROVAL AND I BELIEVE THAT
COVERS MY BRIEF PRESENTATION
THIS TIME AND I'M DEFINITELY
AVAILABLE FOR ANY QUESTIONS.
>> PERFECT.
THANK YOU MR OK, WE'RE GOING TO
MOVE ON TO A PUBLIC HEARING.
>> THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
INDIVIDUALS TO SPEAK UP TO
THREE MINUTES ON THIS
PARTICULAR ITEM.
>> WE'LL FIRST HEAR FROM THOSE
PRESENT AND THEN THE REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK REMOTELY
PLEASE PRESS STAR NINE IF ON
THE PHONE OR USE A HAND FEATURE
IN ZUM OR PHONE ACCESS PLEASE
CALL EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT
FIVE THREE FIVE TWO FOUR SEVEN
AND UNDER MEETING IN NINE SEVEN
SEVEN SIX SIX THREE FOUR ONE
TWO TWO.
>> SEX CITY STAFF WILL IDENTIFY
CALLERS BUT THE LAST THREE
DIGITS OF THE PHONE NUMBER OR
BY NAME ON ZOOME USERS YOU'LL
HEAR AN AUTOMATED ANNOUNCEMENT
WHEN IT'S YOUR TURN TO SPEAK
AND PLEASE ENSURE THAT YOU'RE
IN A QUIET AREA FOR ALL
PARTICIPANTS.
>> PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING
OF YOUR COMMENTS AND IS THERE
ANYONE PRESENT I WOULD LIKE TO
ADDRESS THE COMMISSION AT THIS
TIME.
YEAH MR ROBERT PANJAB AGAIN
THANK YOU CHAIR WOO GLAD TO SEE
HOUSING ON THIS SITE.
HOWEVER THIS PROJECT FAILED
SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW THE FIVE
EVVY INSTALLED AND FORTY
CAPABLE CHARGING SITES ARE
REQUIRED BY THATTHE DEVELOPER
MENTIONED REQUIRED BY ORDINANCE
ENERGY STAR EFFICIENT
APPLIANCES ARE PRETTY MUCH
STANDARD NOW.
ABSOLUTELY NO SOLAR ON THIS
BUILDING AND THE DEVELOPER DID
MENTION THAT THE COMMON SPACES
WILL BE HERE WITH GAS.
I PRESUME THAT THE INDIVIDUAL
UNITS WILL BE USING VERTEX
VERTICAL TERMINAL
AIRCONDITIONERS, INDIVIDUAL
CLOSET TYPE UNITS THE ABOUT THE
GAS THE THE CLUBHOUSE AMENITIES
AREA ON THE FIRST FLOOR IS ONE
THOUSAND FIVE HUNDRED THIRTY
SQUARE FEET AND 14 FEET HIGH.
>> SO THEY'RE SAYING THAT YOU
CAN'T HEADSPACE EQUIVALENT TO A
MID-SIZED HOME WITH AN AIR
SOURCE HEAT PUMP BUILDING
CORRIDORS NOT THEN EITHER.
>> YOU KNOW I SUGGEST LOOKING
AT THE DAKEN HEAT PUMP OR THE
HYPER HEAT FROM MITSUBISHI
THESE WERE SELECTED BY
ROBERTSON BROTHERS FOR THEIR
FOR SALE HOMES AT THE VILLAGE
SITE OF PONTIAC TRAIL ALL
ELECTRIC.
THERE ARE SEVERAL OTHER RECENT
EXAMPLES OF INHIBITIVE
APARTMENTS GOING ALL ELECTRIC.
ONE IS THE FOURTH STORY SEVENTY
NINE UNIT APARTMENT BUILDING AT
EIGHTEEN FIFTEEN NORTH MAPLE
APPROVED IN MARCH TWENTY TWENTY
THREE ALL ELECTRIC I'M GOING TO
QUOTE FROM THE FINAL SITE PLAN
OUR DEVELOPMENT WILL NOT BE
RELIANT ON NATURAL GAS AND WILL
INSTEAD PROMOTE AND EXPLORE THE
USE OF ALTERNATIVE CLEAN ENERGY
SOURCES SUCH AS SOLAR.
>> WE PROPOSE REMOVING AND
CAPPING EXISTING GAS LINES TO
REMOVE THE RISK OF DANGEROUS
GAS LEAKS AND OTHER HARMFUL
BYPRODUCTS TYPICALLY ASSOCIATED
WITH NATURAL GAS USE OUR
PROPOSAL ANTICIPATES AN ALL
ELECTRIC FUTURE THAT IS
SUSTAINABLE AND IN LINE WITH
THE CITY'S ZERO 2030
CARBON INITIATIVE AND QUOTE
THAT INITIATIVE BY THE WAY
ASSUMES STARTING IN TWENTY
TWENTY TWO ALL NEW CONSTRUCTION
IS BUILT TO NET ZERO ENERGY
WITH NO NATURAL GAS CONNECTION
.
>> I CAN THINK OF OTHER
EXAMPLES OFF THE TOP OF MY HEAD
THERE'S ARBER ON MAIN UP THE
MAIN STREET FROM THIS PROJECT
464 UNITS ALL ELECTRIC BACKUP
GENERATOR FOR GAS.
THAT'S IT SEVEN TWENTY ONE S
FOR SAME SITUATION THERE ARE
OTHERS SO THIS IS ANN ARBOR I
THINK YOU HAVE TO MEET THE
EXPECTATIONS THIS COMMUNITY
THIS BY THE WAY THE PROJECT AT
NORTH MAPLE ALSO HAS A FIFTEEN
SQUARE SIXTY SQUARE FOOT
CLUBHOUSE EXACTLY THE SIZE
OF YOURS AND THAT'S HEATED
ELECTRICALLY AND THAT BUILDING
ALSO CONTAINS BATTERY STORAGE
AND BY THE WAY AFFORDABLE
HOUSING 15 PERCENT OF UNITS AT
60 PERCENT AM I THANK YOU.
THANK YOU, MR. GARBER.
IS THERE ANYONE ELSE PRESENT I
WOULD LIKE TO ADDRESS THE
COMMISSION SEEING NONE THAT DO
WE HAVE REMOTE CALLERS?
>> WE DO HAVE ONE LANDRY'S
PHONE NUMBER ENDING AND SEVEN
EIGHT NINE YOU PERMISSION TO
ADDRESS THE PLANNING COMMISSION
.
HELLO?
>> CAN YOU HEAR ME?
YES, WE CAN WRITE HI MY NAME IS
FINE I'M IN ANN I'M ACTUALLY
CALLING REPRESENTING CITIZENS
CLIMATE LOBBY AND REPRESENTING
THE ELEVEN HUNDRED ANN ARBOR
CHAPTER MEMBERS I WANTED TO SAY
THAT WE WE COMMEND THE
DEVELOPER FOR THE DEVELOPMENTS
MANY SUSTAINABLE ELEMENTS
INCLUDING THE USE OF ELECTRIC
HEAT PUMPS IN ALL THE UNITS.
WE'RE ALSO NOW RELIEVED TO HEAR
THAT THEY ARE AT LEAST
CONSIDERING ALL ELECTRIC FOR
THE TIME IN THE AREA.
WE WILL NOTE THAT SEVERAL NEW
MALFI FAMILY BUILDINGS IN ANN
ARBOR MANY WHICH MR. GARBER
MENTIONED ARE ALL HAVE EITHER
ALL BEEN BUILT OR BEEN BUILT
AND ARE LARGER THAN THAN THIS
BUILDING.
THOSE INCLUDE JUST TO NAME A
FEW SOUTHTOWN BRIARWOOD THREE
THIRTY THREE WILLIAMSPORT AND
KATHERINE AGAIN MAPLE NORTH
MAPLE AND MILLER SEVEN-ELEVEN
CHURCH AND SEVEN THIRTY TO
TACKLE THESE ARE ALL LARGER
DEVELOPMENTS SO WE ENCOURAGE
THE DEVELOPER TO EXPLORE THIS
FURTHER AND HOPE THAT THEY'RE
GOING TO FIND THAT IN THE THE
ENTIRE BUILDING COULD BE MADE
ALL ELECTRIC.
WE ALSO THINK THAT THIS IS THAT
IS THE CITY IMPLEMENT THE
SCREEN RENTAL HOUSING PROGRAM.
THIS WILL IMPROVE THE
DEVELOPMENT SCORE AND MAKE THE
UNITS MORE MARKETABLE.
SO THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
DO WE HAVE ANY OTHER REMOTE
CALLERS?
>> THERE ARE NO HANDS RAISED.
THANK YOU.
>> BUT JUST ONE MORE SECOND.
>> ALL RIGHT.
WITH THAT I'LL CLOSE PUBLIC
HEARING WE'RE GOING TO MOVE ON
TO THE PROPOSED CITY PLANNING
COMMISSION MOTION WHICH IS THE
ANN ARBOR CITY PLANNING
COMMISSION APPROVES THE TWENTY
NINE HUNDRED S MAIN SITE PLAN
VERSION FIVE DATED APRIL TWENTY
THREE TWENTY TWENTY FOUR AS IT
COMPLIES OF ALL APPLICABLE
REQUIREMENTS OF THE UNIFIED
DEVELOPMENT CODE AND OTHER
APPLICABLE LAWS OR STANDARDS
AND REGULATIONS ALSO HERE THIS
IN CONJUNCTION WITH THE
PROPOSED CITY PLANNING
COMMISSION MOTION THAT WE
APPROVE THE ALTERNATIVE
MITIGATION FOR LANDMARK TREE
REMOVAL FOR EIGHT FORTY EIGHT
PERCENT OF LANDMARK TREES
REMOVED ON SITE BY PROVIDING
SIXTY THOUSAND AND TWENTY FOUR
DOLLARS TO THE CITY'S STREET
TREE PLANTING FUND MOVED BY
COMMISSIONER MILLS SECONDED BY
COMMISSIONER EACH DISCUSSION
OF THE PROPOSED MOTIONS DOES
ANYBODY WANT TO KICK US OFF
COMMISSIONER WETHERBY?
>> SO I JUST HAVE A QUICK
QUESTION PROBABLY FOR STAFF ON
THE COMPARISON CHART IN OUR
NOTES IT SAYS THAT THE SIDES
SET BACK NORTH IS REQUIRED
FIFTY SIX FEET AND THE PROPOSED
IS FOUR FOOT FIVE INCHES AND I
I DON'T THAT SOMEHOW IT DOESN'T
SAY PULLS NORTH FIFTY SIX YEAH.
THERE'S SOMETHING ISN'T AND
WHAT'S NO IT DOES IT'S ACTUALLY
IT WOULD BE ZERO ZERO THERE'S
NO REQUIRED SET BACK ON THAT
NORTH BECAUSE IT'S ADJACENT TO
ANOTHER OFFICE OWNED PARCEL.
>> OK I HAVE WELL JUST TRYING
TO FIGURE OUT WHAT I DID RANDOM
NUMBERS I WASN'T QUITE SURE OK
YEAH I APOLOGIZE TO MY MISTAKE.
>> YES IT IS IT'S IT'S A ZERO
SETBACK SO ACTUALLY WELL NO I
THAT'S AN OBVIOUS MISTAKE I
SHOULD HAVE CAUGHT BUT YEAH THE
ACTUAL I MEAN THE MEASUREMENT I
CAN'T ZOOM IN ON THIS SITE PLAN
BUT IS CLOSER TO A FIFTY SIX
BUT YEAH IT PROPOSED IS I MEAN
WHAT'S REQUIRED ZERO BECAUSE
IT'S ADJACENT TO THE OFFICE.
>> OK THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
THANKS FOR POINTING THAT OUT.
>> ANY OTHER COMMENTS COUNCIL
MEMBER DESH THANK YOU.
I WANT TO FIRST ACKNOWLEDGE
THAT I REALLY APPRECIATE YOUR
FILLING IN SOME OF THE DETAILS
OF THE SUSTAINABILITY THINGS
THAT YOU SEEM TO HAVE
RESEARCHED SINCE WE GOT ALL
THESE DOCUMENTS AND AND I I
ALSO REALLY APPRECIATE THAT
YOU'RE GOING TO WORK WITH YOUR
CONTRACTOR ON CONSTRUCTION
DEMOLITION.
I MEAN IT'S MOSTLY GOING TO BE
CONSTRUCTION BECAUSE YOU'RE NOT
HAVING TO TAKE DOWN ANYTHING
AND IT'S TERRIFIC THAT YOU
THINK THAT YOU CAN SOURCE SOME
RECYCLED BRICK AND METAL THAT'S
NEAT AND MAYBE THAT'S SOMETHING
WE SHOULD THINK ABOUT WHEN
OTHER PEOPLE TALK ABOUT
MATERIALS.
>> IT'S GREAT TO KEEP YOU KNOW,
TO REUSE THINGS AS MUCH AS
POSSIBLE.
>> SO UM I GUESS THE THE THE
QUESTION THAT I WOULD LOVE TO
HEAR MORE EXPLANATION FOR I
UNDERSTAND THAT YOUR ROOFTOP
DOESN'T HAVE ANY MORE SPACE FOR
SOLAR PANELS BECAUSE OF THE UH
BECAUSE THE CONDENSING UNITS
FOR THE HEAT PUMPS IS IT OR
YEAH.
>> SO BASICALLY WE HAVE ABOUT
UP THERE WHERE OUR ROOFTOP
POTENTIALLY A ROOFTOP UNIT OR
AGAIN LIKE I SAID WE'RE GOING
TO EXPLORE EVEN IF WE DO ALL
ELECTRIC WE'RE GOING TO HAVE TO
STILL HAVE A ROOFTOP UNIT FOR A
DEDICATED OUTSIDE AIR.
IT'S NOT THAT IT CAN'T HEAT
COOL IT.
IT'S JUST YOU HAVE TO BRING IN
MORE FRESH AIR THAN WHAT THAT
EQUIPMENT CAN HANDLE.
SO YOU HAVE TO DO IT AS A UNIT
DEDICATED OUTSIDE AIR.
SO WE'RE GOING TO HAVE THAT UP
TOP EVEN IF WE GO TO ALL
ELECTRIC AND THEN WE HAVE ROOF
HATCHES, ELEVATOR OVERRUNS,
THINGS AND THINGS OF THAT
NATURE.
WE DID HAVE OUR ELECTRICAL
ENGINEERS TAKE A LOOK AT IT
BRIEFLY AND JUST SAID TO BE
TOTALLY BLUNT AND HONEST THEY
SAID THE PAYBACK IS YOU CAN'T
GET ENOUGH PANELS UP THERE TO
MAKE A DIFFERENCE.
>> THAT'S YEAH, THAT'S TOTALLY
UNDERSTANDABLE AND YOU KNOW, WE
CAN'T REQUIRE ANY ANY OF THIS
OF YOU.
AND SO IT IS GREAT THE EXTENT
THAT YOU ARE PROVIDING THINGS
AND THAT YOU'VE RESEARCHED
TOGETHER THINGS.
AND SO I GUESS THE OTHER THING
THAT I WANTED TO FOLLOW UP ON
IS UM UH HOW HOW LIKELY DO YOU
THINK IT IS THAT YOU'LL BE ABLE
TO NOT USE GAS FOR HEATING THE
COMMON AREAS?
>> HAVE YOU?
>> I THINK IT'S PRETTY LIKELY.
I THINK IT'S JUST SOMETHING
THAT WE HAVE TO DIG INTO A
LITTLE BIT MORE ON OUR END.
>> UM, I DON'T THINK WE CAN ASK
YOU TO DO MORE BUT I'M HAPPY
FOR OTHERS WHO KNOW MORE ABOUT
THIS AREA TO PRESS FURTHER AND
YEAH, I THINK MY MY QUESTIONS
HAVE BEEN ANSWERED.
>> SOME OF THEM I WAS CONFUSED
ABOUT THE DISTINCTION BETWEEN
THE GROUND LEVEL AND THE FIRST
FLOOR BUT NOW I UNDERSTAND THAT
YOU HAVE A SLOPED SITE AND SO
THAT'S WHY THAT DISTINCTION IS
THERE.
>> SO ALL RIGHT.
>> THANK YOU.
YEAH.
AND WE'RE HAPPY TO LOOK INTO
THAT PLEASE.
WE MEAN WELL IT'S JUST WE'RE
ALSO TRYING TO MAKE SOME OTHER
DECISION, SOME PRACTICAL
DECISIONS FOR THE OWNERS.
>> SO THANK ANY OTHER
COMMISSIONERS, MR. MILLS.
I'LL CHIME IN THAT I APPRECIATE
THE SUSTAINABILITY ELEMENTS
THAT WERE HIGHLIGHTED.
I THINK UH, ALSO APPRECIATE
THAT ESPECIALLY THE ONES THAT
ARE NOT REQUIRED AND THAT
YOU'VE DONE KIND OF YOUR
HOMEWORK AND LOOKING INTO THEM
.
>> I'M JUST CURIOUS THE FEATURE
ON THE LIST OF SUSTAINABILITY
ELEMENTS WITHIN THE THIS IS
MORE FOR STAFF PROBABLY THAN
FOR YOU THE LIST
OF SUSTAINABILITY ELEMENTS
WITHIN THE THE STAFF REPORT THE
LAST ONE THE EV CHARGING
STATIONS PER CODE THAT'S CLEAR
AND REQUIRED THE OTHER THREE
ELEMENTS ENERGY STAR
CERTIFICATION, THE HIGH
EFFICIENCY APPLIANCES AND THE
ELECTRIC HEAT PUMPS FOR UNITS
IS IS THEIR TEETH IN THAT LIKE
I'M JUST CURIOUS ABOUT SO SO
THAT WE CAN BETTER UNDERSTAND.
I MEAN I THERE'S NOTHING TO
WHICH WE CAN I JUST WANT TO
MAKE SURE THAT THAT WE'RE CLEAR
ABOUT WHETHER IT'S SOMETHING
IT'S SHOWN ON THE SITE PLAN IF
IT IF IT HAPPENS MUST HAPPEN
BECAUSE IT'S I KNOW IT WOULDN'T
GO IN THIS PARTICULAR SITUATION
INTO THE DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
BECAUSE IT'S NOT A REQUIREMENT
ELEMENT.
>> CORRECT.
IT'S NOT IT WOULDN'T BE IN THE
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT AND IT'S
IT'S NOT A CODE REQUIREMENT IS
WHAT I CAN TELL YOU.
I MEAN WE'RE NOT WHETHER OR NOT
THEY INSTALL ENERGY START
APPLIANCES IN THERE.
I MEAN WE DON'T ACTUALLY GO IN
THERE AND INSPECT THE
APPLIANCES.
SO I MEAN AGAIN, I NOT THAT I
THINK THEY WOULD DO A BAIT AND
SWITCH BUT I MEAN THAT'S VERY
SIMILAR TO A LOT OF OUR
REQUIREMENTS.
>> THERE ARE A LOT OF THE
ELEMENTS YOU SEE ON OTHER SITE
PLANS AS WELL AS SOME OF THESE
.
IF IT'S NOT REQUIRED THERE
WOULD BE NO THEY COULD PULL A
PERMIT.
THEY COULD BUILD IT EVEN AS AN
ELECTRIC IF IT'S NOT REQUIRED
YOU COULD SWAP OUT AT A LATER
DATE EVEN FOR NATURAL GAS AT
THAT POINT IF IT'S NOT REQUIRED
.
>> I JUST WANT TO MAKE SURE
AGAIN I'M NOT THINKING THAT
YOU'RE GOING TO DO THAT.
THERE'S NO ELEMENT TO DO THIS.
I ENCOURAGE YOU TO DO IT.
IT MAKES SENSE THAT
YOU CAN
MARKET IT TO YOUR RESIDENCE.
>> EXACTLY.
YES.
THERE IS THERE IS A PAYBACK
WITH DOING THAT STUFF TOO.
I MEAN FRANKLY.
SO SO THERE'S DEFINITELY I WANT
TO TO KEEP PURSUING THOSE TYPES
OF ENDEAVORS.
>> GREAT.
THANKS.
THANK YOU.
ANY OTHER COMMISSIONERS, MR.
WETHERBEE?
>> I'LL JUST BE CHATTY TODAY
JUST FOLLOWING ON THAT THERE'S
A NEW APARTMENT BUILDING NEAR
MY HOUSE AND IT LIKE YOURS
DOESN'T HAVE A LOT OF AMENITIES
AND THEY ARE REALLY PROMOTING
ALL ELECTRIC SOLAR ROOF MAKING
A BIG DEAL OUT OF IT AND IT
DID, YOU KNOW, RENT VERY
QUICKLY.
SO I THINK IT'S JUST SOMETHING
TO REALLY THINK ABOUT.
SURE.
BECAUSE IT IS AS YOU KNOW THE
COMMENT THIS IS ANN ARBOR AND
PEOPLE REALLY ESPECIALLY IN A
BUILDING THAT MAYBE DOESN'T
HAVE A POOL, DOESN'T HAVE A
RIGHT YOU KNOW, BEING ALL
ELECTRIC, YOU KNOW, SUSTAINABLE
IS IS ACTUALLY A GOOD SELLING.
ABSOLUTELY.
>> IT'S MY PRIMARY NOTE THAT I
JUST TAKEN THAT BACK THE OTHER
COMMISSIONERS COMMISSIONER
HAMMERSCHMIDT, THANK YOU.
>> I JUST TACK ON TO THAT IDEA
ON YOUR SUSTAINABILITY SIDE
RESPONSIBLE BUILDING MATERIALS
THAT'S AWESOME THAT YOU'RE CAN
USE THE RED LIST PROMO THAT
THAT YOU'RE USING HEALTHY
MATERIALS.
>> I THINK THAT'S REALLY
IMPORTANT TO PEOPLE AND THERE'S
ALSO THE LIVING BUILDING
CHALLENGE HAS THE DECLARED
LABEL TO DECLARE LABEL SO IT
REALLY EASILY IDENTIFIES
PRODUCTS THAT ARE FREE OF TOXIC
MATERIALS TO MAKE IT EASIER FOR
OWNERS CONTRACTORS TO MAKE
SELECTIONS OF MATERIALS.
>> AND THANK YOU FOR BRINGING
THIS PROJECT.
I THINK THIS IS A GOOD LOCATION
FOR HOUSING ESPECIALLY GIVEN
THE MULTI ONE AUTO TASK.
>> THIS IS THE NAME FINALIZED
NO.
>> OK, NO.
OK, GREAT.
THAT'S A PLACEHOLDER JUST A
SHORT TIME AGO.
THAT'S PERFECT.
IT'S A BEAUTIFUL BUILDING.
>> THANK YOU.
YEAH YEAH THANK YOU.
>> ANY OTHER COMMISSIONERS
COMMISSIONER THANKS FOR
BRINGING THIS PROJECT TO US.
THANKS FOR BUILDING HOUSING IN
THIS SITE.
>> THANKS FOR CONTINUING THE
SIDEWALK OR PUTTING IN THE
SIDEWALK GAP THAT IS GOING TO
BE MY QUESTION BUT MR. QUASI
ANTICIPATED IT AND HIGHLIGHTED
IN HIS STAFF PRESENTATION.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
I DO HAVE QUESTIONS ABOUT
PARKING.
THERE IS A LOT OF PARKING.
THERE'S JUST LOOKING AT THE
SITE PLAN.
IT'S ABOUT AS MUCH PARKING AS
THE BUILDING FOOTPRINT.
>> SO COULD YOU JUST TALK TO US
A LITTLE BIT ABOUT WHY YOU HAVE
SO MUCH PARKING?
>> I DON'T MEAN TO SPEAK FOR
YOU BUT I THINK I THINK THE
IDEA IS TO HAVE ONE PER
APARTMENT IS THAT WE FEEL THAT
THAT AREA I KNOW THE THAT AREA
TO SEE ONE ZONING PASS BUT IT'S
THERE IS IS THERE MAY NOT BE AS
MUCH IT'S NOT AS WALKABLE AS
THE DECOR DOWNTOWN AREA AND
SOME OF THE JUST THE MARKET
STUDIES WE'VE DONE RESIDENTS IN
THAT AREA WOULD REQUEST
PARKING.
>> IT'S JUST A ONE TO ONE RATIO
.
THERE IS SOME TWO BEDROOM UNITS
OR IN AND ESSENCE A FAMILY
COULD BE LIVING IN THERE BUT
THEY'D ONLY BE ALLOCATED ONE
PARKING SPOT.
SO LOOKING AT IT FROM THAT
SENSE WE DON'T FEEL THAT IT'S
THAT MUCH PARKING.
>> BUT YOU'RE NOT YOU'RE
BUNDLING THE PARKING SO THERE
WON'T BE A FEE FOR THE PARKING
THERE COULD POTENTIALLY OR BE
BUILT INTO THEIR RENT.
WE HAVEN'T WE HAVEN'T WE
HAVEN'T EXPLORED THAT.
>> OK, AND THEN YOU HAVE A BANK
THAT IS TO YOUR SS AND WITH A
VERY LARGE PARKING LOT THAT IS
ALMOST ALWAYS EMPTY ESPECIALLY
WHEN I GO BY.
>> HAVE YOU EXPLORED DOING A
SHARED PARKING AGREEMENT?
>> WE HAVE WE HAVE NOT WOULD
YOU BE WILLING TO EXPLORE THAT
POTENTIALLY?
WE STILL THINK THOUGH WE STILL
THINK WE WOULD NEED THE SPACE
THAT WE HAVE IN OUR SITE PLAN
JUST BASED ON SOME FEEDBACK
WE'VE GOT JUST FROM DIFFERENT
LEASING AGENTS AND WHATNOT AND
WHAT RESIDENTS WOULD WANT IN
THAT AREA NEXT.
>> THANK YOU, COMMISSIONER
HAMMERSCHMIDT.
>> SORRY FOR TACKING ON TO
THINGS THAT YOU SAY ON THAT
NOTE.
>> I JUST IN MY HEAD WHEN
YOU'RE TALKING ABOUT ONE TO ONE
VISITOR PARKING IF THE PEOPLE
HAVE GUESTS OVER THAT MIGHT BE
A GOOD REASON TO EXPLORE A
JOINT PARKING AGREEMENT WITH
THE BANK SO THAT THERE'S A
PLACE FOR VISITING NATURE THAT
MAKES A LOT OF SENSE.
>> ABSOLUTELY.
>> YES, MR. COMMISSIONER.
WHICH IS FINE.
WE'RE JUST BACK AND FORTH HERE.
WHAT SOLAR LIKE AWNINGS ON THE
PARKING LOT.
DID YOU ALL LOOK AT THAT AT ALL
RIGHT NOW?
OK, BECAUSE I MEAN I IMAGINE
YOU'D HAVE THE SAME FOOTPRINT
THAT YOU WOULD HAVE FOR THE
ROOF AND SO THEN YOU WOULD HAVE
AN OPPORTUNITY THERE AND PLUS
IT HAS A LOT OF BENEFITS.
YEAH, BECAUSE THEN YOU DON'T
YOU'RE GOING TO COVER ORNING
BECAUSE THEN YOU DON'T HAVE TO
WORRY ABOUT SNOW REMOVAL.
YOU CAN CHARGE FOR FREE THERE
PLUS YOU CAN FEED INTO THE
BUILDING THAT MAKES SENSE AND
YOU LOOK AT IT THAT'S A GOOD
USE AND AND FOR STAFF DO WE
HAVE RESTRICTIONS ABOUT SOLAR
PANELS IN OUR WETLANDS LIKE WHO
MANAGES THAT AND IS THIS LIKE
WITH WITHIN THE WETLAND?
WELL SO THEY HAVE THAT WHOLE
BACK AREA THAT THEY'RE
PRESERVING WHICH IS BOTH AN
OPEN SPACE BUT JUST TRYING TO
FIGURE OUT IF THERE WAS A
CREATIVE USE WHERE THEY WOULD
BE ABLE TO MAINTAIN IT BUT ALSO
PUT SOLAR IN IT AND IT WOULD
STILL BE OPEN SPACE.
>> GOOD QUESTION BUT NO,
UNFORTUNATELY NOT BECAUSE AGAIN
THE EXTENT OF THAT WETLAND IT
DOES KIND OF SPREAD OUT AND AND
YOU'D HAVE TO GET OVER IT TO
THERE'D BE TOO MUCH IMPACT TO
THE NATURAL FEATURES.
IT WOULD TRIGGER ANOTHER SITE
PLAN AND I DON'T EVEN KNOW THAT
WE WOULD ALLOW THAT THAT IMPACT
TO THAT WETLAND FOR SOLAR
PANELS.
>> BUT JUST WATCHING AND THEN
THERE ARE SIGNIFICANT LANDMARK
TREES WITHIN THAT AREA AS WELL.
SO THAT WOULD BE ANOTHER
FACTOR.
>> OK, THANK YOU.
>> ANY OF THE COMMISSIONERS,
MR. ADAMS?
>> I WAS GOING TO RAISE THIS AT
A WORKING SESSION BUT IT'S COME
UP TONIGHT OR SOCIALIZE IT BE I
THINK WE NEED TO ABANDON FULL
OUTSIDE REVIEW OF SITE PLANS
LIKE THIS AND I'VE BROUGHT THIS
UP BEFORE AND I WANT TO RAISE
IT AGAIN IN A WORKING SESSION
BUT WE JUST HAVEN'T HAD ONE AS
MUCH AS I WANT TO INSIST ON
GREATER SUSTAINABILITY AS PART
OF THESE PROJECTS, WE JUST
DON'T HAVE THE LEGAL AUTHORITY
UNDER THE UDC TO DO SO.
AND WHAT I WHAT I'M CONCERNED
ABOUT HERE IS FOR THE SAME
REASON THAT COUNCIL GOT RID
OF COUNCIL REVIEW BY WRIGHT
PROJECTS WE'RE CONTRIBUTING TO
NOT ONLY WASTED STAFF RESOURCES
BUT ALSO A PUBLIC
MISUNDERSTANDING ABOUT WHAT
WE'RE DOING HERE.
IF WE IF THERE'S NOT AND I
THINK WE'VE HEARD THIS FROM
STAFF THEY DON'T HAVE A
DEVELOPMENT A SET
OF DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS THAT
THEY UNDERSTAND THAT APPLY TO
THESE TYPES OF SCORING TASKS.
>> AND AND AGAIN, I THINK THAT
THERE'S A LITTLE BIT OF STAFF
TIME BURN HERE THAT WE'RE
TOLERATING AND NOT GETTING A
LOT OF VALUE OUT OF IT.
SO I THINK AT A WORKING SESSION
I WANT TO RAISE MOVING AWAY
FROM DOING THIS AS PART
OF EVERY ONE OF THESE AND DEFER
TO STAFF ON WHEN TO ASK FOR
THAT REVIEW BECAUSE THERE'S
SOME PROJECTS LIKE PD APPROVAL
WHERE I THINK IT WOULD BE VALUE
ADD AND WE DO WANT TO CONTINUE
TO HAVE IT.
>> BUT I THINK STAFF KNOWS WHEN
TO ASK FOR IT AND WHEN NOT TO
AND I THINK WE OUGHT TO GET TO
THAT AS THE BEST PRACTICE.
>> THAT'S ALL HIM.
THANK YOU.
ANY OTHER COMMISSIONERS I'LL
ADD A FEW COMMENTS HERE.
I DO LIVE ACTUALLY REALLY CLOSE
TO HERE SO I KNOW THE SITE
WELL.
I'M AND I HAVE WALKED IT SO I
THINK THE SIDEWALK AT
COMPLETION IS GOING TO BE A
PUBLIC BENEFIT.
>> ABSOLUTELY.
FROM AGAIN OUR ROLE AS
ADMINISTRATIVELY REVIEWING THE
COMPLIANCE WITH THE UDC ZONING
LAW AREA ALONG WITH COMPLIES
FLOREA RATIO THE FOUR SEVENTY
FIVE PERCENT MAX WHICH IS KIND
OF WHAT GOVERNS THE OFFICE ZONE
.
IT COMPLIES IT'S SEVENTY TWO
PERCENT BUILDING HEIGHT MATCHES
AS WELL AS THE SET BACKS.
>> THANK YOU AGAIN FOR POINTING
OUT THE FIFTY SIX FEET TO ZERO
THAT IS REQUIRED.
>> THAT BEING SAID I THINK IT'S
ACTUALLY KIND OF A DIFFICULT
SITE THAT YOU'VE BEEN ABLE TO
INCLUDE A LOT OF INFILL
DEVELOPMENT ON THE IN AN IDEAL
WORLD MAYBE A PARTIAL ASSEMBLY
THAT COULD CREATE MORE
ACTIVATION.
BUT AGAIN GIVEN THE CONSTRAINTS
OF THE SITE ITSELF, I THINK YOU
GUYS HAVE DONE A FINE JOB AS
FAR AS INFILL GOES AND SO I
WILL ALSO KIND OF PLUG IN THAT
UNDERGROUND PARKING DECKS ARE
VERY EXPENSIVE SO I DON'T THINK
THAT DEVELOPER WOULD
NECESSARILY PURSUE IT UNLESS IT
WAS REALLY KIND OF MARKET
DRIVEN.
RIGHT.
AND SO I CAN'T IMAGINE THOSE
PARKING SPOTS ARE
CHEAP PROBABLY 70 EIGHTY
THOUSAND DOLLARS PER SPOT.
SO THEY'RE NOT NECESSARILY
REVENUE GENERATING FROM THAT
RESPECT UNLESS IT'S AGAIN
BUNDLED OR CHARGED FOR SO AND
LOOKING AT THE COMPLIANCE WITH
THE UDC AND LOOKING AT F.R.
PERMITTED USE WITH THE OFFICE
DOWN AND THEN LOOKING AT THE
CONTEXTUAL NATURE OF THE SITE.
SO YOU HAVE AMERICARE SENIOR
FACILITY, YOU HAVE CONDOS IN
THE NORTH AND YOU HAVE
RESIDENTIAL YOU HAVE A CHILD
CARE FACILITY TO THE EAST AND
THEN A MIXED USE COMMERCIAL
BUILDING WITH A BANK TO THE
SOUTH.
AND SO GIVEN THE SITE
CONSTRAINTS I ACTUALLY APPLAUD
THE ABILITY TO BRING FORTY FIVE
UNITS TO THE MARKETPLACE SO I
WOULD BE IN SUPPORT OF THIS
WITH THAT.
>> DO WE HAVE ANY OTHER
COMMISSIONERS WITH FEEDBACK?
ALL RIGHT WITH THAT WE WILL
MOVE ON TO A ROLL-CALL VOTE
KELLY AND THE TWO MOTIONS AS
PRESENTED CLEARLY YES SECRETARY
WISCH YES.
>> COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT
YES.
COUNCILMAN REDISH YES.
COMMISSIONER MILLS YES.
COMMISSIONER WEATHERBY.
YES.
COMMISSIONER ADAMS.
MR. NORTON.
YES.
>> YES.
MR. NORTON.
THOSE CARRY THANK LUCK WITH THE
>> YES.
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT.
THOSE CARRY THANK LUCK WITH THE
>> ALL RIGHT.
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT.
WE ARE NOW GOING TO MOVE ON TO
>> ALL RIGHT.
THE ITEM NUMBER TEN THIS 90 I
WE ARE NOW GOING TO MOVE ON TO
BUT INTRODUCE THE PETITION THIS
THE ITEM NUMBER TEN THIS 90 I
IS
THE AMENDMENT TO THE UNIFIED
DEVELOPMENT CODE RELATED TO
EXCEPTIONS TO HEIGHT LIMITS,
STORMWATER REVIEWS, DEVELOPMENT
ACTIVITY APPROVAL AND FINISHED
GRADE DEFINITION.
>> THIS IS WITH RESPECT TO
SECTIONS FIVE POINT ONE EIGHT
POINT FOUR FIVE POINT TWENTY
TWO FIVE POINT TWENTY NINE AND
FIVE POINT THIRTY SEVEN POINT
TWO.
>> WE'RE GOING TO FIRST MOVE ON
TO STAFF PRESENTATION BY
PLANNER DUILIO.
>> THANK YOU.
BEAR WITH ME WHILE I CHANGE
THIS TO PRESENTATION VIEW
BECAUSE I'M A TECH EXPERT
SUPERSTAR OH THANK YOU.
>> THIS STAFF REPORT HAS BEEN
PREPARED AS FOR FOUR SEPARATE
AMENDMENTS AND ONE STAFF REPORT
TO SAVE A QUARTER OF A TREE BUT
THEY'VE BEEN PRESENTED IN SUCH
A MANNER THAT THEY CAN BE VOTED
ON INDIVIDUALLY.
THEY'RE JUST BUNDLED INTO ONE
STAFF REPORT TO SAVE A LITTLE
BIT OF TALKING AND A LITTLE BIT
OF TIME AS MENTIONED, THESE ARE
AMENDMENTS RELATED TO EXCEPTION
TO HEIGHT LIMITS.
>> STORMARE TO REVIEWS
DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITY APPROVAL
AND FINISHED GRADE DEFINITION
GO THROUGH EACH ONE
INDIVIDUALLY IN ORDER OF THE
STAFF REPORT AND SOMEWHAT
BRIEFLY SO PLEASE DO EITHER
INTERRUPT OR NO QUESTIONS FOR
FOLLOW UP.
THE FIRST IS EXCEPTION
EXCEPTIONS TO BUILDING HEIGHT
IN SECTION FIVE EIGHTEEN POINT
FOUR THE CURRENT AND PROPOSED
LANGUAGE IS ON THE SCREEN AS
WELL AS IN THE STAFF REPORT AND
IN THE ATTACHED ORDINANCE.
>> OUR ANALYSIS IS THAT THE
CURRENT LANGUAGE UNDER THE
HEADING EXCEPTION TO HEIGHT
LIMITS LIST ALL OF THE
ARCHITECTURAL FEATURES THAT ARE
SUBJECT TO THE HEIGHT LIMITS
AND NO EXCEPTIONS ARE ACTUALLY
OFFERED BEYOND ONE DISGUISES TO
A WIRELESS COMMUNICATION
FACILITIES.
THE PROPOSED EXCEPTIONS ARE THE
RESULT OF NUMEROUS REQUESTS AND
COMMENTS NOTING THAT STRICT
APPLICATION OF HEIGHT LIMITS TO
ELEVATOR OVERRUNS AND STAIRWELL
DOGHOUSES.
I BELIEVE THAT'S AN
ARCHITECTURAL TERM THAT
ARCHITECTS KNOW THIS BUT THOSE
REQUIRE THE BUILDINGS TO BE
ALMOST A STORY SHORTER THAN
EXPECTED GIVEN T MAXIMUM
HEIGHT LIMIT IN ORDER TO
ACCOMMODATE THOSE THINGS.
AND THE REVISION WILL HELP
ACHIEVE THE FULL AMOUNT OF THE
PERMITTED DEVELOPMENT DENSITY
AND HEIGHT WITHOUT
NECESSITATING VARIANCES OR
OTHER MODIFICATIONS.
>> STAFF IS RECOMMENDING
APPROVAL OF THIS ONE.
>> THE NEXT AMENDMENT IS A
SECTION FIVE TWENTY POINT
TWENTY TWO STORMWATER REVIEWS
THE CURRENT AND PROPOSED AGAIN
ON THE SCREEN AND IN THE PACKET
.
>> THE PROPOSED AMENDMENT WILL
ONLY REQUIRE THE WASHTENAW
COUNTY WATER RESOURCES
COMMISSIONER'S OFFICE TO REVIEW
SITES WITHIN ITS JURISDICTION.
ALL OTHER SITES WILL BE
REVIEWED BY THE CITY VAN ARBER
BUT WE CAN DELEGATE THEM BACK
TO THE WATER RESOURCES
COMMISSIONER'S OFFICE DEPENDING
ON CIRCUMSTANCES.
CIRCUMSTANCES MAY BE EXACTLY AS
CURRENTLY WRITTEN IN CODE BUT
THIS AMENDMENT ALIGNS SOLELY
ALONG GEOGRAPHICAL
CONSIDERATIONS RATHER THAN LAND
USE TYPES OR DEVELOPMENT
CIRCUMSTANCES.
IT'S A CLEANER APPROACH AND
DOESN'T OBLIGATE ANY AGENCY TO
OPERATE OUTSIDE OF THEIR
JURISDICTION WHILE NOT
PREVENTING VOLUNTARY
COOPERATION.
WE'VE ALSO ADDED SOME HEADINGS
FOR EASIER NAVIGATION AND
SEPARATING STORMWATER
MANAGEMENT AND SOIL EROSION SO
THEY BECOME DISTINCT SECTIONS
IN THIS AND EACH HAVE INTUITIVE
SUBHEADINGS THE THIRD AMENDMENT
IS REGARDING DEVELOPMENT
ACTIVITY APPROVALS.
THIS IS AN AMENDMENT TO TABLE
FIVE POINT TWENTY NINE DASH ONE
IN SECTION FIVE TWENTY NINE
POINT SIX BEFORE AND I'M
TALKING ABOUT BEFORE TWENTY
TWENTY THREE THE DEVELOPMENT
ACTIVITY APPROVALS WERE IN A
LIST.
IT WAS MADE INTO A TABLE THEN
AND THE LIST OF ACTIVITIES THAT
REQUIRED SPECIFICALLY DID NOT
REQUIRE A SITE PLAN FOR
CONSTRUCTION SOLELY ON THE
INTERIOR OF A BUILDING THAT
DOES NOT INCREASE FLOOR AREA.
THE AMENDMENT PROPOSED IS TO
PROVIDE DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITY
APPROVAL OR THE AMENDMENT TO
PROVIDE DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITY.
PROPOSALS IN THE TABLE INCLUDED
DOWNGRADING OR REMOVING THE
SITE PLAN APPROVAL NECESSITY
FOR MANY ACTIVITIES BUT IT
ADDED SITE PLAN APPROVALS
NEEDED FOR EXISTING NONRESIDENT
BUILDINGS.
THIS AMENDMENT WILL RETURN THE
APPROVAL STANDARD FOR WORK
SOLELY ON THE INTERIOR OF A
BUILDING TO REQUIRE BUILDING
PERMITS ONLY NOT ANY TYPE
OF SITE PLAN REVIEW.
AND FINALLY THE FOURTH
AMENDMENT IS TO THE DEFINITION
OF FINISHED GRADE.
WE TALK A LOT ABOUT BUILDING
HEIGHT IN IN THE DEPARTMENT TOO
MUCH.
WE ARE PROPOSING A DEFINITION
TO FINISH GRADE TO CLARIFY THE
TO CLARIFY AND THE HOW YOU
DETERMINE THE LEVEL OF THE
GROUND EMPHASIS ON SINGULAR.
IT'S THE LEVEL WHEN THE SITE IS
NOT LEVEL.
I THINK IT'S THE PART ABOUT
AVERAGING THE ELEVATION OF THE
GROUND FOR EACH SIDE OF THE
STRUCTURE USING THE HIGHEST AND
LOWEST POINT OF EACH SIDE AND A
LOT OF A LOT OF PEOPLE
INTERPRET THIS TO FOR
ELEVATIONS OF THE SITE AND AND
MEASURE BUILDING HEIGHT
RELATIVE TO EACH ONE OF THEM TO
ALMOST GET FOR BUILDING HEIGHTS
FOR A BUILDING.
THE CHANGE IS AGAIN JUST TO
EMPHASIZE ON THE SINGULAR AND
PROVIDE NOT EXACTLY A
MATHEMATICAL FORMULA BUT
PROVIDE STEP BY STEP ON HOW TO
ACHIEVE THIS.
>> THE ONE SUBSTANTIVE CHANGE
WE ARE PROPOSING IS MEASURING
INSTEAD OF MEASURING SIX FEET
FROM THE EXTERIOR WALLS TO FIVE
FEET THIS IS PROPOSED FOR
CONSISTENCY WITH THE FORMULA
FOR MEASURING BUILDING HEIGHT
IN THE MICHIGAN BUILDING CODE .
THOSE NUMBERS ARE ACTUALLY
REVERSED CURRENTLY READS FIVE
FEET WE'RE PROPOSING SWITCH TO
SIX FEET.
>> THANK YOU.
THERE'S ALWAYS ONE AND PLANNING
MANAGER GETS THE GOLD STAR
TODAY.
>> YEAH.
SO THOSE ARE FOUR PROPOSED
AMENDMENTS TO THE UNIFIED
DEVELOPMENT CODE AGAIN
REGARDING HEIGHT EXCEPTIONS
STORMARE REVIEWS DEVELOPMENT
APPROVALS AND FINISHED GRADE.
THANK YOU PLANNER JALEO.
I'M GOING TO MOVE ON TO PUBLIC
HEARING.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
INDIVIDUALS TO SPEAK UP THE
THREE MINUTES ON THIS ITEM.
WELL, FIRST HEAR FROM FOLKS
THAT ARE HERE AND THEN REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK REMOTELY
PLEASE PRESS STAR NINE HAVE ON
THE PHONE OR USE A RACE HAND
FEATURE ON ZOOM PHONE ACCESS
PLEASE CALL EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN
EIGHT FIVE THREE FIVE TO FOUR
SEVEN AND UNDER MEETING IT'S
NINE SEVEN SEVEN SIX SIX THREE
FOUR ONE TO TWO SIX CITY STAFF
WILL IDENTIFY CALLERS BY THE
LAST THREE TO THE PHONE NUMBER
OR BY NAME ON ZOOM YOU'LL HEAR
AN AUTOMATED ANNOUNCEMENT WHEN
IT'S YOUR TURN TO SPEAK PLEASE
ENSURE THAT YOU'RE IN A QUIET
AREA FOR ALL PARTICIPANTS.
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING
OF YOUR COMMENTS.
>> IS THERE ANYONE PRESENT THAT
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
TIME?
>> RIGHT SEEING NONE.
IS THERE ANYONE WHO WOULD LIKE
TO ADDRESS THE QUESTION
REMOTELY THERE NO HANDS ARISE.
>> MR. CHAIR, THANK YOU.
>> WITH THAT I'M GOING TO TALK
TO JUST A QUICK HEADS UP FROM
FOLKS IF THEY WANT TO TAKE THIS
ALL FOR CONCURRENTLY OR TO
SEPARATE THEM.
ALL RIGHT.
SEEING AGREEMENT WE'RE GOING TO
TAKE ALL OF THEM TOGETHER.
SO THE PROPOSED MOTIONS ARE
THAT THE ANN ARBOR CITY
PLANNING COMMISSION HEREBY
RECOMMENDS THAT THE MAYOR AND
CITY COUNCIL APPROVE AMENDMENTS
.
CHAPTER FIFTY FIVE UNIFIED
DEVELOPMENT CODE SECTION FIVE
POINT ONE EIGHT POINT FOUR TO
ALLOW ELEVATOR ESCALATORS,
STAIRWELL AND OVERRUNS
EXCEPTIONS HEIGHT LIMITS IN
MIXED USE NON RESIDENTIAL AND
SPECIAL PURPOSE ZONING
DISTRICTS AS PROPOSED.
ADDITIONALLY, THE ANN ARBOR
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION HEREBY
RECOMMENDS THAT THE MAYOR AND
CITY COUNCIL APPROVED
AMENDMENTS CHAPTER FIFTY FIVE
UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT
CODE SECTION FIVE POINT TO TWO
TO CHANGE THE STORMWATER REVIEW
RESPONSIBILITY OF THE
WASHINGTON COUNTY WATER
RESOURCE COMMISSIONER TO ONLY
SITES IN ITS JURISDICTION AND
REORGANIZE NUMBERING AND
HEADINGS FOR IMPROVED
NAVIGATION AS PROPOSED TO MOORE
AND OTHER CITY PLANNING
COMMISSION HEREBY RECOMMENDS
THAT THE MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
APPROVE THE AMENDMENTS.
A CHAPTER FIFTY FIVE UNIFIED
DEVELOPMENT CODE TABLE FIVE
POINT TWO ONE DASH ONE IN
SECTIONS FIVE POINT TWO NINE
POINT SIX TO CHANGE THE
REQUIRED APPROVAL FOR INTERIOR
CONSTRUCTION DISCIPLINE PLAN
APPROVAL NOT REQUIRED AS
PROPOSED IN THE LAST ONE THE
ANN ARBOR CITY PLANNING
COMMISSION HEREBY RECOMMENDS
OF THE MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
APPROVE AMENDMENTS TO CHAPTER
FIFTY FIVE.
OBVIOUSLY THE UNIFIED
DEVELOPMENT CODE TWO SECTIONS
FIVE POINT THREE SEVEN POINT
TWO TO REVISE THE DEFINITION
OF FINISHED GRADE TO IMPROVE
CLARITY MOVED BY COMMISSIONER
WHITE AND SECONDED BY COUNCIL
MEMBER DISH ALL RIGHT, WE'RE IN
DISCUSSION WHO WOULD LIKE TO
MR. JUST A QUICK QUESTION
PLANNER DUILIO I THINK IT WAS
THE THIRD ONE THE INTERIOR
CONSTRUCTION THAT RESULTS
INCREASED NUMBER OF DWELLING
UNITS WE HAD THE DORM I GUESS
IT WASN'T A DORM SCHOLARSHIP
THAT CAME AND THEY WERE
BUILDING IN THE ATTIC SPACE BUT
THEY HAD TO BRING SOMETHING TO
PLANNING WITH THAT HAVE JUST
GONE TO TO THE BUILDING BECAUSE
THEY DIDN'T CHANGE ANYTHING.
>> YEAH, SCHOLAR HOUSE THEY
DIDN'T CHANGE THE FOOTPRINT.
THEY JUST ADDED ROOMS IN A
BATHROOM ON A FOURTH FLOOR I
THINK IT WAS SO THERE'S THIS
AMENDMENT WITH THIS AMENDMENT
HAVE APPLIED TO THEM AND THEY
WOULDN'T HAVE HAD TO COME
BEFORE PLANNING IS MY QUESTION.
>> I DON'T THINK THAT THIS
AMENDMENT WOULD HAVE BEARING ON
IT EITHER ON IT EITHER WAY I'M
GOING TO HAVE TO THINK ABOUT
THIS.
>> I'M ALSO NOT THAT FAMILIAR
WITH THE EVANSVILLE SCHOLAR
SITE.
>> I I IF I COULD JUMP IN I
THINK THAT I WOULD HAVE TO GO
BACK BUT A LOT OF TIMES GROUP
HOUSING LIKE THAT IS BY SPECIAL
EXCEPTION.
YES.
AND SOMETIMES THERE IS A LIMIT
ON THAT.
I DON'T KNOW IF YOU RECALL IF
THAT WAS PART OF THE AMENDMENT
IT REGARDLESS
OF THE SITE
REQUIREMENTS IF THEY NEEDED TO
AMEND THAT IN ORDER TO
INCREASE
THE MAXIMUM OCCUPANCY UNDER A
CONDITION OF THE SPECIAL
EXCEPTION, IT WOULD STILL HAVE
REQUIRED TO COME HERE.
BUT IN THE EVENT THAT THEY HAD
CAPACITY AND THAT THEN THEY
THIS WAS THEN IN PLACE THAT IS
THEY WERE APPROVED FOR SEVENTY
FIVE AND CURRENTLY THEY HAD
FIFTY AND THEY WERE GOING TO
SEVENTY THEN IF THIS WAS IN
PLACE WOULD HAVE IT WOULD HAVE
PREVENTED THAT FROM HAVING TO
COME TO THIS BOARD.
>> OK IS THERE A WAY FOR US TO
JUST NOTE THIS TO COME BACK TO
BECAUSE IF THERE'S A WAY FOR US
TO FIX THIS SO THAT THERE'S THE
THE IMPACT OF HAVING TO COME TO
THIS TABLE FOR SOMETHING THAT
WE'RE TRYING TO ACHIEVE WITH
THIS WHICH IS THEY'RE NOT
CHANGING THE PHYSICAL FOOTPRINT
OF THE BUILDING AND I CAN'T
REMEMBER BECAUSE WHEN THEY
BUILT IT I THINK THEY DID HAVE
SOME SPACE LIKE FLEXIBILITY AND
BUT THEN THEY DID HAVE TO COME
AND IT JUST IT FELT PROCEDURAL
IN A LOT OF WAYS WHICH HAS A
LOT OF OUR TESTS.
IT'S VERY POSSIBLE THAT THE
ANSWER YEAH, I'LL HAVE TO
RESEARCH THAT PETITION BUT IF
THEY HAVE THAT SPACE THEN YES
THIS IF THIS ORDINANCE WHAT WAS
IN PLACE IT WOULD HAVE IT WOULD
HAVE JUST GONE TO THE BUILDING
.
>> OK, GREAT.
THANK YOU.
>> COULD I ASK A REALLY QUICK
QUESTION ABOUT THE SUBSTANTIVE
CHANGE FROM FIVE TO SIX FEET
AND JUST THE THOUGHT PROCESS
BEHIND THAT?
I THINK THAT THE INTERNATIONAL
CONSTRUCTION CODE HAS A SIMILAR
SCHEME FOR MEASURING INTEGRATE
THEY USE SIX FEET FROM THE
BUILDING WALLS.
THIS WOULD BRING OUR LOCAL
CODE TO BE CONSISTENT WITH THE
BUILDING CODES SO THAT WHEN
APPLICANTS ARE MOVING FROM SITE
PLANS TO THEIR BUILDING CODES
THEY WOULD BE ABLE TO USE THE
SAME CALCULATION.
>> PERFECT.
THANK YOU MR MILLS.
>> I WANT TO COMMEND STAFF FOR
TAKING THE AMOUNT OF OF TIME
THAT IT TAKES TO WRITE THIS UP
TO SAVE YOUR ALL THE
CONVERSATIONS IN THE BACK AND
FORTH THAT MAY BE GOING ON AND
IDENTIFYING FOR US WHERE ARE
PINCH POINTS OR DO MUCH
CONVERSATION ABOUT HOW DO YOU
CALCULATE THE HEIGHT OF THE
BUILDING AND I THINK ALL
OF THESE MAKES SENSE.
AND AGAIN THAT WE HAVE A
CODE NOW THAT'S EASIER TO SEE
WHERE THOSE WHERE WE'RE GETTING
TO THESE LIKE MAKING OUR LIFE
EASIER.
THIS WOULD HAVE BEEN A LOT
HARDER BEFORE UNIFIED
DEVELOPMENT CODE AS MY SON'S
THE ONLY OTHER THING THAT I
WANT TO SAY BECAUSE I DID A
QUICK GOOGLE BECAUSE I SAW THE
THE NEWEST EDITION OF UTC COME
OUT.
THERE IS ONE OTHER EXCEPTION
FOR PEOPLE WHO REALLY CARE
ABOUT US TO HIGH LIMITS AND
THAT WAS SKIPPED OVER AND THAT
IS FOR SOLAR PANELS ON FLAT
ROOFS.
SO THAT IS NOW BEEN CODIFIED
AND IS IN THERE AND IT WAS JUST
A DIFFERENT THING BECAUSE I
NEEDED TO DO QUICK SEARCH
OF UTC TO SEE THAT.
>> I THINK YOU'LL SEE THAT IN
THE ORDINANCE IT WASN'T
MENTIONED IN THE STAFF REPORT
GRANIT ADMITTED IT.
>> YOU'LL SEE THAT IN THE
ORDINANCE IN SECTION IN THE
SECTION ONE OF THE ORDINANCE
AND IT'S THERE ALREADY AS B AND
IT'S JUST MOVING TO NUMBER TWO
AND WHAT IT SAYS BUILDING
MOUNTED WHICH STANDS FOR A
DEFINED AS SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM
OR PERSONAL SKILL SETS MAY
EXTEND UP TO TWELVE FEET ABOVE
THE HEIGHT LIMIT OF THE
DISTRICT IN WHICH IT'S LOCATED.
>> YEAH, YOU MENTIONED THE
COMMUNICATION TOWERS AND I WAS
LIKE OH THERE'S GOT TO BE MORE
THAN THAT.
>> AND SO I WAS JUST YAY THAT
WE ARE CODIFYING BOTH OF THESE
THINGS TOGETHER.
>> THANK YOU.
ANY OTHER COMMISSIONERS COUNCIL
MEMBER DAS ANOTHER QUICK QUICK
QUESTION PURELY OUT
OF CURIOSITY, WAS IT AN
INADVERTENT OUTCOME OF THE UH
OF THE AMENDMENT THAT I DON'T
KNOW THE STAFF MEMBER SAID IT
WAS JUNE 1ST TWENTY TWENTY TWO
STAFF MEMBER FOR AN EARLIER
MEETING AND TONIGHT SAID TWENTY
THREE BUT THAT DOESN'T REALLY
MATTER.
>> WAS IT INADVERTENT THAT WE
ADDED SORT OF A PENALTY FOR
ADAPTIVE REUSE?
WE UH I THINK IT WAS THE BEST
OF OUR RECOLLECTION ALTHOUGH WE
DIDN'T COMB THE FILES BECAUSE
IT'S A LITTLE BIT MOOT NOW BUT
UH, PRE TWO GENERATIONS AGO IT
THE CONSTRUCTION SOLELY ON THE
INTERIOR OF A BUILDING PERIOD
WAS EXEMPT FROM SITE PLAN
REVIEW AND THAT MEANT IN IN A
NON A DISTRICT THAT DOES NOT
START WITH R IN A DISTRICT THAT
IS REGULATED BY FLOOR AREA
RATIO.
THAT'S WHAT ALLOWED YOU TO
CHANGE THE USES BACK AND FORTH
AMONG PERMITTED USE AS THOUGH
THAT'S WHAT CHANGE USES BACK
AND FORTH.
SO THE DOWNTOWN OFFICE COULD GO
ADD RESIDENTIAL UNITS OR THE
RESIDENTIAL UNITS COULD BE
CONVERTED TO OFFICE VICE VERSA
SO FORTH AND THEN BUT ADDING
DWELLING UNITS AND THAT WAS
APPLIED TO THE OTHER DISTRICTS
THAT SO ADDING FLOOR AREA NEW
FLOOR AREA WAS THE TRIGGER IN A
NON RESIDENTIAL ZONING DISTRICT
AND ADDING DWELLING UNITS WAS
THE TRIGGER IN OUR DISTRICT.
THAT WAS TWO GENERATIONS AGO.
ONE GENERATION AGO IT SAYS THAT
INTERIOR CONSTRUCTION THAT DOES
NOT INCREASE DWELLING UNITS
THAT'S EXEMPT AND WE SUSPECT
THAT MAYBE IT WAS A WAY TO FLAG
INCREASES IN DWELLING UNITS SO
THAT WE COULD GET A REVIEW
OF THE SANITARY SEWER
MITIGATION IMPACTS AND SO ON
AND SO FORTH.
BUT WE DISCUSSED AND WE CAN GET
AT THAT NEED TO DO THAT REVIEW.
WE DON'T HAVE TO HAVE THE
FORESIGHT PLAN JUST TO DO THAT
ENFORCE THAT COMPONENT.
IT ALSO HELPS THAT OTHER CODES
THAT ARE TIED NUMBER
OF DWELLING UNITS ARE SORT
OF GOING AWAY FOR LACK A BETTER
WORD.
WE DON'T HAVE REQUIRED PARKING
ANYMORE.
IT USED TO BE IMPORTANT TO GET
SITE PLANS IN SO THAT WE COULD
CHECK FOR THINGS LIKE DO YOU
HAVE ENOUGH PARKING TO SUPPORT
THIS NEW LAND USE AND SO FORTH
SINCE WE DON'T HAVE MINIMUM
PARKING REQUIREMENTS, THE NEED
FOR THAT REVIEW THAT LEVEL
OF REVIEW IS LESSER AND WHAT
REMAINS WE WE STILL DO THE
OTHER REVIEWS AS NECESSARY BUT
WE DO THEM AS PART OF THE
BUILDING PERMIT.
>> THIS IS A COOL STORY BECAUSE
IT YOU WE ARE TALKING ABOUT
WANTING TO SIMPLIFY OUR
REGULATORY SYSTEM AND IT IS
NICE TO HEAR AN INSTANCE WHERE
A SIMPLIFICATION WHICH IS THE
ELIMINATION OF PARKING CAN
CARRY WITH IT MORE
SIMPLIFICATION AND REMOVAL
OF MORE DELAYS.
>> SO THAT'S JUST GREAT.
ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU.
AND THE OTHER COMMISSIONERS.
ALL RIGHT.
SEE NONE I THINK WE CAN GO TO A
ROLL-CALL VOTE ON FOUR MOTIONS
AS PRESENTED.
>> LEE YES.
RIGHT.
>> YES.
HAMMERSCHMIDT YES.
YES, YES.
MELS YES.
WETHERBEE YES.
>> ADAMS YES.
NORTON YES.
>> THAT CARRIES UNANIMOUSLY.
>> ALL RIGHT.
RIGHT.
THANK YOU.
WE'RE GOING TO MOVE ON TO ITEM
NUMBER NINE C AND FOR THIS
PARTICULAR ONE I AM GOING TO BE
RECUSING MYSELF AS MY EMPLOYER.
OXFORD HAS AN INTEREST IN THESE
AMENDMENTS.
>> THANK YOU.
WHICH MEANS I GET TO CHAIR FOR
JUST THIS ONE MOMENT I AM
INTRODUCING OUR TWO ONE
AMENDMENTS TO THE UNIFIED
DEVELOPMENT CODE RELATED TO THE
TRANSIT CORRIDOR DEVELOPMENT
STANDARDS AND PARKING
STRUCTURES USE AND
SPECIFICATION SECTION SIXTEEN
THREE AND FIVE SEVENTEEN POINT
SEVEN STAFF RECOMMENDATION IS
APPROVAL AND I THINK WE HAVE A
STAFF PRESENTATION FROM PLANNER
DELIO.
>> YOU.
THIS IS ONE BATCH OF AMENDMENTS
BUT YOU ARE FREE TO PICK AND
CHOOSE AS YOU LIKE BY AMENDING
THE MOTION.
THESE ARE AMENDMENTS TO SECTION
FIVE SEVENTEEN SEVEN AND FIVE
SIX THREE RELATED TO A TRANSIT
CORRIDOR DISTRICT ADDITIONAL
STANDARDS AND TO THE SPECIFIC
STANDARDS FOR PARKING
STRUCTURES.
I WOULD GO THROUGH THESE IN
ORDER OF THIS STAFF REPORT
SIMILAR TO THE PREVIOUS THERE
IS BACKGROUND IN THE STAFF
REPORT.
I SHOULD SAY THAT THESE ARE THE
RESULT OF A PETITION SUBMITTED
BY BY A THIRD PARTY REQUESTING
FIVE AMENDMENTS TO THE
DEVELOPMENT CODE AND THEY DO
ADDRESS CURB CUTS BUILDING
MENTIONS BUILDING FRONTAGE
PARKING STRUCTURE, USE SPECIFIC
STANDARDS AND THE DEFINITION
OF A BLOCK.
THE ORDINANCE REVISIONS
COMMITTEE TALKED ABOUT THESE IN
ONE OF THEIR MEETINGS AND THE
PLANNING COMMISSION AS A WHOLE
DISCUSSED AT A WORKING SESSION
AND WE HAVE BEFORE YOU TONIGHT
THE FINAL VERSION OF THE
PROPOSED AMENDMENTS FOR PUBLIC
HEARING AND RECOMMENDATION.
THE FIRST IS AN AMENDMENT
REGARDING CURB CUT LIMITS.
IT IS TO SECTION FIVE IN TABLE
FIVE SEVENTEEN SEVEN AND
RELATIVE TO THE CURRENT THE
CURRENT STANDARD LISTED ON THE
SCREEN ALSO IN THE ORDINANCE
THE PROPOSED AMENDMENT
SIMPLIFIES THE CODE AND ALLOWS
THE OPPORTUNITY TO HOLISTIC
ADDRESS HOW THE NUMBER
OF OPENINGS ARE ADDRESSED
CITYWIDE RATHER THAN DOING IT
DISTRICT BY DISTRICT WE WILL WE
ARE PROPOSING TO REMAIN AS A
CITYWIDE METHOD OF ASSIGNING
CURB CUTS OR OPENINGS AS THE
CODE CALLS THEM ALTHOUGH WE
DIDN'T DO A COMPREHENSIVE
ANALYSIS, THE PROPOSED CHANGE
WILL ONLY SIGNIFICANTLY IMPACTS
LOTS BETWEEN ONE HUNDRED AND
ONE AND TWO HUNDRED FEET.
THE CURRENT STANDARD OF THE ONE
DISTRICT LIMITS THOSE TO ONE
CURB CUT AND A NORMAL STANDARD
PROVIDED IN SECTION FIVE TWENTY
ONE ONE WOULD ALLOW THEM TO
CURB CUTS OTHERWISE THE SMALLER
LOTS UNDER BOTH CODES ARE
PERMITTED ONE AND THE LARGER
LOTS ARE PERMITTED TO.
THIS IS ALSO FURTHERING OUR
SIGNIFICANT AND INCREASING
CRITICISMS OF VERY NARROWLY
TAILORED DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
WHETHER IN ONE DISTRICT OR IN
SAPWOOD SUBMENTAL REGULATIONS
THAT ARE OVERLY RESTRICTIVE,
UNNECESSARILY COMPLICATED
FORMULAS AND THEIR LACK
OF ADAPTABILITY AND
RESPONSIVENESS TO WHOLESALE
CHANGES IN THE CODE AND THE UDC
DOES STRIVE TO INCREMENTALLY
MOVE DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS IN
THE CITY TOWARDS SUSTAINABLE
DEVELOPMENT
.
>> IT ALSO STRIVES TO BE LESS
RESTRICTIVE, LESS COSTLY AND
EASIER TO UNDERSTAND AND
IMPLEMENT.
THE NEXT AMENDMENT IN THIS
GROUP IS REGARDING BUILDING
DIMENSION'S.
THE PROPOSED INCREASE IN
BUILDING DIMENSIONS ALLOWS FOR
MORE FLEXIBILITY TO DESIGNERS
PARTICULARLY ON LARGER SITES
AND ENABLES PURPOSE-BUILT
STRUCTURES SUCH AS PARKING
STRUCTURES TO INITIALLY HAVE
THE MOST EFFICIENT USE OF SPACE
AND BETTER IN THE FUTURE TO BE
RECONFIGURED TO DIFFERENT USES
EXPLICITLY THE DECKS IN A
PARKING STRUCTURE CAN BE LEVEL
WITH A 300 FOOT DIMENSION
INSTEAD OF SLOPED AND THAT WILL
ENABLE IT TO BE ADAPTIVELY
REUSED BECAUSE IT'S VERY
DIFFICULT TO ADAPTIVELY REUSE A
BUILDING A SLOPED FLOORS.
I'M NO ENGINEER BUT I CAN SEE
THAT AND ALSO OUR BRIEF
ANALYSIS OF EXISTING DOWNTOWN
BUILDINGS REVEALED A FAIRLY
MINOR DIFFERENCE IN PEDESTRIAN
EXPERIENCE BETWEEN BUILDINGS
ABOUT 250 AND BUILDINGS ABOUT
THREE HUNDRED FEET AND WITH
BOTH TAKE ABOUT THE SAME AMOUNT
OF TIME FOR A PEDESTRIAN TO
WALK PAST AND THE GOAL OF THE
STANDARD IS REALLY JUST TO
ENSURE THAT PEDESTRIANS AND
MANAGEABLY NAVIGATE ACROSS AND
THROUGH A DEVELOPMENT THAT
THEIR PATH FROM THE FIRST
BUILDING RIGHT AT THE SIDEWALK
TO A BUILDING BEHIND IS
REASONABLE.
THE NEXT AMENDMENT IN THE GROUP
IS BUILDING FRONTAGE.
WE'LL TALK ABOUT THIS A LOT
THIS EVENING AND I WILL
ACKNOWLEDGE THAT THIS AMENDMENT
PRESENTED BY STAFF DEPARTS FROM
A PROPOSAL BY THE APPLICANT AS
WELL AS THE PREVIOUS DISCUSSION
AT THE PLANNING COMMISSION
WORKING SESSION OF MAY 14TH
WHERE IT WAS EMPHASIZED THAT
THE 70 PERCENT NUMBER SHOULD BE
MAINTAINED BUT I WILL BE
PRESENTING SOME EXAMPLES
RELATIVE TO THE STANDARD THAT
SHEDS MORE LIGHT ON OUR
PROPOSED AMENDMENT.
WE EXPLORED THE APPLICATION
OF BOTH THE CURRENT STANDARD
AND THE APPLICANT PROPOSED
AMENDMENT TO SEVERAL DIFFERENT
DEVELOPMENT TYPOLOGIES AND
FOUND THAT AN ARRAY OF SITES
THAT DO AND DO NOT MEET THE
STANDARD BUT THAT ARE STILL
FAIRLY APPROPRIATE OR STILL ARE
APPROPRIATE FOR THE ONE
DISTRICT AND PRESENTED LANGUAGE
PROVIDES A GREATER DEGREE
OF FLEXIBILITY TO PROPERTY
OWNERS TO REALIZE NEW
DEVELOPMENT ALONG THE
ESTABLISHED TRANSIT CORRIDORS.
THE 74 PERCENT BUILDING FRONT
STANDARD CAN RESULT IN DISTINCT
CHALLENGES BETWEEN SITES
OF VARYING SIZES MORE IN A
MINUTE BUT THE NEXT ONE IN THE
AMENDMENT IS REGARDING
DEVELOPMENT ARRANGEMENT AS
EVIDENCED BY THE MERE FACT THAT
A PETITION WAS REQUESTED TO
DEFINE BLOCK THIS STANDARD IS
CONFUSING UPON REFLECTION, THE
DEVELOPMENT ARRANGEMENT
STANDARD DOESN'T REALLY PROVIDE
ANY STANDARD, DOESN'T FURTHER
DESIGN PRINCIPLES, STANDARDS OR
REQUIREMENTS THAT ARE NOT
ALREADY ADDRESSED BY OTHERS
DELETING A STANDARD WILL NOT
CHANGE THE OUTCOMES
OF DEVELOPMENT IN THE ONE
DISTRICT BUT WILL MAKE APPLYING
THE ADDITIONAL STANDARDS
CLEANER AND CLEARER A LITTLE
BIT OUT OF LINE OR OUT OF ORDER
FROM THE STAFF REPORT THE NEXT
AMENDMENT TO SECTION FIVE
SEVENTEEN IS SPECIFIC BUILDING
TYPES.
THIS IS BEYOND WHAT THE
PETITION HAS REQUESTED BUT IT
IS IN KEEPING WITH THE GOALS
FOR SIMPLICITY AND CLARITY
MENTIONED EARLIER.
THE UNIQUE STANDARDS BASED ON
BUILDING TYPE ARE PROPOSED TO
BE REMOVED WHILE RETAINING AND
CLEARLY ARTICULATING THE
STANDARD FOR THE FIRST FLOOR
FACING THE STREET WHICH MUST
CONTINUE TO MEET THE D1 D2
DISTRICT REQUIREMENTS FOR
DESIGN AND THEN CIRCLING BACK
TO THE PARKING STRUCTURE USE
SPECIFIC STANDARDS APOLOGIZE.
THE PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT WILL
ALLOW OFF STREET PARKING USE ON
THE FIRST FLOOR.
A PARKING STRUCTURE IS NOT
ADJACENT TO DESIGNATED TRANSIT
CORRIDOR STREETS.
THIS IS IN KEEPING WITH THE
ALLOWANCES FOR PARKING
STRUCTURES IN THE DAEWON
DISTRICT ADJACENT TO SECONDARY
AND FRONT YARD STREETS
CURRENTLY OFF STREET PARKING
USES ARE ALLOWED ON THE FIRST
FLOOR FACING THE INTERIOR
OF THE SITE IN BOTH THE TAXI
ONE AND DAEWON DISTRICTS.
THE REORGANIZATION ELIMINATES
THE SECOND SEPARATE PARAGRAPH
IN THE TAXI ONE DISTRICT SAVING
ABOUT AN INCH AND WHEN THE THEN
THE PROPOSED TREATMENT IS
IDENTICAL TO THE TUNE ONE
DISTRICT IT SO IT WILL HELP
STREAMLINE THE CODE .
I'VE HIT SOMETHING BY ACCIDENT
YOU COMING BACK TO A BUILDING
FRONTAGE AS PROMISED.
SO WE TOOK A LOOK AT YOU KNOW
THAT 70 PERCENT BUILDING
FRONTAGE REQUIREMENT AND THE
AND THIS IS AN EXAMPLE SHOWING
THE NORTH SIDE OF HURON STREET
BETWEEN ASHELY AND MAIN.
THIS IS ABOUT TWO HUNDRED AND
SIXTY FIVE FEET IN WIDTH AND
THAT BUILDING FRONTAGE IS ABOUT
100 HUNDRED PERCENT.
THIS IS ARBOR HILLS CROSSING AT
THIRTY ONE HUNDRED WASHTENAW.
IT'S FRONTAGE FROM FLAT TO ITS
EASTERN EDGE IS SEVEN HUNDRED
AND FIFTY NINE FEET MAYBE SEVEN
HUNDRED AND SIXTY FEET AND IT
HAS FORTY FOUR PERCENT BUILDING
FRONTAGE TO TEN FIRST STREET IS
LOT THAT HAS ONE THAT IS ONE
HUNDRED AND FIVE FEET WIDE IT'S
BUILDING FRONTAGE IS OFFICIALLY
THIRTY SIX FEET MEASURED AT THE
FRONT SET BACK LINE BUT WHEN
YOU INCLUDE THE SECOND PORTION
OF THE BUILDING WHICH IS SET
BACK FROM THE FRONT LINE SIXTY
SIX PERCENT OF THE TOTAL LOT
WITH THIS IS A WHOLE CORRIDOR
DOWNTOWN LIBERTY STREET AND ITS
NORTH SIDE BETWEEN SOUTH FIRST
AND SOUTH ST. IT RUNS FOR SIX
BLOCKS AND ACROSS THE WHOLE
LENGTH THE THE BUILDING
FRONTAGE IS EIGHTY FOUR PERCENT
BLOCK BY BLOCK STARTING FROM
FIRST STREET.
THAT BUILDING FRONTAGES
INDIVIDUALLY ARE FORTY TWO
PERCENT ONE HUNDRED ONE HUNDRED
ONE HUNDRED SIXTY FIVE AND
NINETY.
HERE ARE SOME STREET VIEW
SCREENSHOTS.
>> THE UPPER RIGHT NOT LEFT
UPPER LEFT STARTS AT THE BOTTOM
OF THE HILL ON ASHLEY LOOKING
UP UP THE HILL THE UPPER RIGHT
HAND CORNER IS WHEN YOU ARE
STANDING ON STANDING IN LIBERTY
AT MAIN STREET LOWER LEFT IS
WHEN YOU ARE STANDING AT THE
CORNER STANDING IN THE DIVISION
CROSSWALK AND THE LOWER RIGHT
IS WHEN I HAVE THE LOWER LEFT
WRONG.
>> THAT'S WHEN YOU'RE STANDING
AT THE ON FIFTH AVENUE AND THE
LOW I NEED TO GO NORTH.
I'M MUCH BETTER AT NORTH EAST
SOUTH AND WEST.
>> THE LOWER LEFT RIGHT IS WHEN
YOU'RE STANDING AT DIVISION
STREET THIS IS AN EXAMPLE FROM
WEST STADIUM BOULEVARD.
IT'S THE BLOCK BETWEEN SOUTH
MAPLE AND WYNWOOD HIGHLIGHTED
BY YELLOW IT'S BUILDING FRONT
TO 62 PERCENT.
>> HERE IS IN PITTSFIELD
TOWNSHIP, ANN ARBOR, SELINE
ROAD BETWEEN LAW AND PASSED OAK
VALLEY ON THE NORTH SIDE WEST
OF OAK VALLEY.
DOES MY POINTER SHOW?
>> IT DOES OK THIS SIDE WEST
OF OAK VALLEY HAS SIXTY PERCENT
BUILDING FRONT AND EAST OF OAK
VALLEY ON THE SOUTH SIDE SO
THIS SIDE THAT IS FIFTY TWO
PERCENT FRINGE MAYBE THE END.
HERE'S SOME SCREENSHOTS JUST TO
ONE LOOKING EAST NORTHEAST ONE
LOOKING SOUTH WEST ONE OF THOSE
LEGS AH HAVE ONE STORY
BUILDINGS AND THE OTHER IS
THREE STORY BUILDINGS THE
BEEKMAN ON BROADWAY PROJECT AT
ELEVEN HUNDRED TWELVE HUNDRED
BROADWAY THE BROADWAY FRONTAGE
SPENDING BOTH BUILDINGS HAS
SIXTY EIGHT PERCENT FRONTAGE
AND THE MAIDEN LANE THE ONE
BUILDING ALONE SIXTY PERCENT
FRONTAGE HERE TWO SCREENSHOTS
AS WELL ONE FROM BROADWAY ONE
FROM MAIDEN LANE AND ONE ON
PLYMOUTH ROAD TWENTY SEVEN
NINETY THREE THAT PROJECT ALONE
THAT'S BUILDING FRONT IS A
SIXTY SIX PERCENT AND SO FROM
THESE ARE STAFF TAKEAWAYS WERE
IT DOES SEEM EQUALLY REALISTIC
TO DESIGN A PEDESTRIAN FRIENDLY
TRANSIT FRIENDLY PROJECT ON A
SMALL SITE EXAMPLE THE PLYMOUTH
ROAD SITE AS A LARGE SITE THOSE
AND OUR BUSTLINE ROAD PROJECTS
AND PITTSVILLE TOWNSHIP ARE A
LOT OF ACRES ALL OF THEM THAT
WERE DEEMED PEDESTRIAN FRIENDLY
TRANSIT FRIENDLY USE BUILDINGS
LESS THAN THREE HUNDRED FEET IN
WIDTH ALONG THE STREET.
THAT ACTUALLY SEEMS TO BE MORE
OF A DETERMINING FACTOR IN
PEDESTRIAN FRIENDLINESS IF THE
COMMISSION IS WOULD LIKE IS
INTERESTED IN KEEPING A
BUILDING FRONT AND CENTER 60 TO
70 PERCENT DOES SEEM
APPROPRIATE FOR A MINIMUM
STANDARD.
BUT EVEN WITHOUT THE BUILDING
FRONTAGE STANDARD, THE RECENT
DEVELOPMENTS WITH ONLY MAXIMUM
SET BACKS HAVE ACHIEVED
PEDESTRIAN FRIENDLY AND TRANSIT
FRIENDLY DESIGNS AND OUR
TAKEAWAY WAS MORE REQUIREMENTS
MAY NOT NECESSARILY HAVE BETTER
RESULTS.
LESS REQUIREMENTS SEEM TO
ACHIEVE THE DESIRED OUTCOMES
AND WE'RE GOING FOR GETTING OUT
OF THE WAY OF DEVELOPMENT AND
TRYING LESS IS MORE APPROACH
FOR THE BEST FLEXIBILITY FOR
DESIGN RELYING ON OUR BUILDING
DIMENSIONS, OUR PARKING
REQUIREMENTS, OUR LANDSCAPING
ORDINANCES AND SO ON AND SO
FORTH TO ACHIEVE THE OUTCOMES
THAT WE WANT.
>> I THINK I DID MENTION IT BUT
I'LL JUST REPEAT ITSELF IS
RECOMMENDING APPROVAL OF THIS
BATCH OF AMENDMENTS.
I'M HAPPY TO TAKE ANY FOLLOW UP
QUESTIONS OR CLARIFICATIONS.
THANK YOU.
PLANETA GUILIO.
WE'LL MOVE NOW TO OUR PUBLIC
HEARING.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
INDIVIDUALS TO SPEAK UP TO
THREE MINUTES ON THIS ITEM WE
WILL FIRST HEAR FROM THOSE WHO
ARE PRESENT THEN FROM REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK REMOTELY
PRESS STAR NINE IF YOU'RE ON
THE PHONE OR USE THE RAISE HAND
FEATURE INSOO FOR PHONE ACCESS
CALL ONE EXCUSE ME.
>> YEAH ONE EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN
EIGHT FIVE THREE FIVE TO FOUR
SEVEN AND INTER MEETING ID NINE
SEVEN SEVEN SIX SIX THREE FOUR
ONE TWO TWO SIX.
CITY STAFF WILL IDENTIFY
CALLERS BY THE LAST THREE
DIGITS OF THEIR PHONE NUMBERS
OR BY NAME FOR WHOM YOU WILL
HEAR AN ANNOUNCEMENT WHEN
YOU'RE WHEN IT'S YOUR TURN TO
SPEAK PLEASE ENSURE YOU'RE IN A
QUIET AREA AND MUTE ANY
BACKGROUND NOISE FOR ALL
PARTICIPANTS.
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING
OF YOUR COMMENTS.
>> IS THERE ANYONE PRESENT WHO
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK ON THIS
ITEM?
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> MY NAME IS ANDREW FROM LARGE
COMPANIES SEVEN SEVEN SEVEN
EISENHAUER SWEET EIGHT FIFTY
FOUR EIGHT ONE ZERO EIGHT ONE.
I THINK THE PLANNING COMMISSION
FOR CONSIDERATION OF THESE TAX
AMENDMENTS.
I THINK IT'S ALSO IMPORTANT
THOUGH TO TAKE A STEP BACK AND
ACKNOWLEDGE WHAT TECH ONE WAS,
WHAT IT WHAT CAN'T BECOME AND
ALL THE WORK THAT WENT INTO
DEVELOPING THE ORDINANCE AND
THE TIME THAT WENT INTO DOING
THAT.
AND IF YOU FLASH FORWARD TO
TODAY REALLY THAT'S WHAT THAT
IS.
WE'RE LOOKING AT THE THE TEXT
AMENDMENTS AS YOU KNOW, TRULY
EVOLVED OUT OF APPLYING THE
ORDINANCE TO REAL PROPERTY.
THERE'S A LOT OF PROPERTIES
WITHIN TICK ONE HERE IT IS.
HERE'S THE EVOLUTION OF THAT TO
SEE HOW HOW THE ORDINANCE COULD
BE APPLIED.
AND I THINK WHAT IT DID IS GIVE
US AN OPPORTUNITY TO KIND
OF TEST THE ORDINANCE AND SEE
HOW THINGS WOULD COME IN
THROUGH THAT APPLICATION WE
WERE ABLE TO IDENTIFY AREAS
WITHIN THE ORDINANCE.
IT PROBABLY NEEDED FURTHER
EVALUATION HENCE THE AMENDMENTS
THAT WE CAME UP WITH AND I FEEL
VERY STRONGLY THAT THE
AMENDMENTS THAT ARE PRESENTED
IN THE STAFF REPORT OFFER A
REAL OPPORTUNITY TO EXPAND UPON
THE REALIZATION OF T ONE THERE
ARE SOME VERY GREAT COMMENTS.
PLANNER DELIO HAD MENTIONED A
COUPLE OF WORDS THAT JUST
RESONATED WITH ME ADAPTIVE
FLEXIBILITY.
AND WHEN WE LOOK AT THAT AS FAR
AS REDEVELOPMENT IS CONCERNED,
WE DO NEED TO BE ADAPTIVE AND
FLEXIBLE TO THAT.
THE ORDINANCE I THINK HAS HAS
THE ABILITY TO WITH THESE
AMENDMENTS HAVE THE INTENT TO
DO THOSE THINGS THAT ONE WAS
INTENDED TO DO.
AND ALSO I THINK COUNCIL MEMBER
YOU WOULD USE THE WORD
TRANSFORMATIVE WITHIN CHIESI
ONE IS WHAT IT COULD BE AND I
THINK THAT COUPLED WITH THE
TEXT AMENDMENTS WITH THE
ORIGINAL ORDINANCE LEADS US TO
THE ABILITY TO BE
TRANSFORMATIVE WITH THIS
ADAPTIVE FLEXIBLE AND BEING
ABLE TO ACTUALLY GAIN MOMENTUM
ON MOVING PROJECTS WITHIN ONE
FORWARD.
SO WITH THAT I'D LIKE TO THANK
MEMBERS OF THE PLANNING
COMMITTEE.
ALL OF YOU SPENT A FAIR AMOUNT
OF TIME WITH US OR SEE STAFF AS
WELL AND IN PARTICULAR PLANNER
DUILIO, THANK YOU.
WE BUG HER A LOT AND SO YOU'VE
BEEN VERY GRACIOUS WITH HER
TIME AND I THINK IT'S A IT'S A
VERY IMPORTANT ISSUE THAT WE'RE
THAT WE'RE BRINGING UP TODAY
AND I THINK OFFERS THE
OPPORTUNITY TO REALLY MOVE SOME
PROJECTS FORWARD.
>> SO THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
IS THERE ANY ONE ELSE PRESENT
WHO WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK ON
THIS?
I'LL SEE NONE.
MISKELLY ARE THERE ANY ZOOME
CALLERS?
>> I DO NOT SEE ANY HANDS
RAISED AT THIS SEE NO ONE I
WILL READ THE MOTION THE ANN
ARBOR CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
HEREBY RECOMMENDS THAT THE
MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL APPROVE
THE FOLLOWING AMENDMENTS TO
CHAPTER FIFTY FIVE UNIFIED
DEVELOPMENT HOAD RELATED TO
TRANSIT CORRIDOR OR ADDITIONAL
STANDARDS AND PARKING
STRUCTURES TO REMOVE THE CURB
CUT LIMIT STANDARD FROM TABLE
FIVE POINT SEVENTEEN DASH EIGHT
IN SECTION FIVE POINT SEVENTEEN
TO SEVEN TO CHANGE THE BUILDING
DIMENSIONS FROM A MAXIMUM
OF TWO HUNDRED FEET AND WITH
AND THREE HUNDRED AND SIXTY
FEET AND DIAGONAL TO THREE
HUNDRED FEET AND WITH AND FOUR
HUNDRED FEET IN DIAGONAL TO
TABLE FIVE POINT SEVENTEEN DASH
EIGHT AND SECTION FIVE POINT
SEVENTEEN POINT SEVEN TO REMOVE
THE BUILDING FRONTAGE
REQUIREMENTS FROM THE TAXI ONE
DISTRICT TO REMOVE THE
DEVELOPMENT ARRANGEMENTS
STANDARD FROM TABLE FIVE POINT
SEVENTEEN DASH EIGHT IN SECTION
FIVE POINT SEVENTEEN POINT
SEVEN TO CONSOLIDATE AND
SIMPLIFY THE SPECIFIC BUILDING
TYPE STANDARD INTO A FIRST
FLOOR STANDARD IN TABLE FIVE
POINT SEVENTEEN EIGHT IN
SECTION SEVEN POINT SEVENTEEN
POINT SEVEN TO COMBINE THE
PARKING STRUCTURES USED EXCUSE
ME USE SPECIFIC STANDARD FOR
THE D ONE AND C DISTRICTS AND
SPECIFY THE REQUIREMENTS APPLY
TO THE FIRST FLOOR OF OFF
STREET PARKING STRUCTURES
ADJACENT TO STREETS DESIGNATED
AS PRIMARY AND TRANSIT CORRIDOR
ON THE STREET TYPE DESIGNATION
MAP SECTION FIVE POINT SIXTEEN
POINT THREE POINT L MOVE BY
COMMISSIONER LS SECONDED BY
COUNCIL MEMBER DISH WE ARE NOW
IN DISCUSSION
COMMISSIONER ELSE
I WANT TO THANK THE PETITIONER
FOR HELPING TO COMMUNICATE WHAT
A PAIN POINT LIKE WHERE THEY
WERE FINDING PAIN POINTS WITHIN
THE ORDINANCE SPECIFICALLY AND
COMING UP WITH SOME SOLUTIONS
AND COMMEND STAFF FOR TAKING
INTO CONSIDERATION PROPOSING
ALTERNATES AND PARTICULARLY IN
THIS LAST GO ROUND SINCE WE
TALKED ABOUT THISAST AS A
COMMISSION DOING THE ADDITIONAL
RESEARCH LIKE DOES 70 PERCENT
ACTUALLY MAKE SENSE AND TO SOME
EXTENT GOING BEYOND WHILE WE'RE
WHILE WE'VE GOT THIS OPEN
LOOKING TO SEE WHAT ARE THE
OTHER OPPORTUNITIES FOR
SIMPLIFICATION?
>> I THINK I THINK IT SHOWS A
LOT OF HUMILITY TO SAY LIKE
MAYBE THIS LIKE UH WE NEED TO
RECONSIDER WHAT WE DID.
AND SO I REALLY APPRECIATE
THAT.
I THINK ALL OF THESE THINGS
MAKE SENSE.
I'VE BEEN LIKE DOUBLE CHECKING
AND TRYING TO GO WRAP MY BRAIN
FROM WHEN WE DISTINGUISHED
BETWEEN TOWNHOMES AND OTHER
KIND OF BUILDINGS LIKE WHY AND
I DON'T I THINK THAT ACTUALLY
FOCUSING ON THE DESIGN
STANDARDS GETS AT THAT INSTEAD
OF BUT I CAN'T REMEMBER A GOOD
RATIONALE TO BE HONEST AT THE
TIME IT MADE LOTS OF SENSE.
>> THERE WAS AN ARGUMENT BUT I,
I IT ESCAPES ME AND SO I THINK
THAT ALL OF THESE WILL SEE ONCE
WE HAVE SOME THINGS BUILT AND
ADDITIONAL PROPOSALS HOPEFULLY
IN TAKE ONE LIKE HOW THIS WORKS
OUT BUT ALSO RECOGNIZING THAT
LIKE UH THIS WAS A UNIQUE
DISTRICT.
RIGHT.
AND THAT UM FINDING THE SWEET
SPOT AND ALSO AGAIN WE STARTED
OUT WITH A LOT OF THINGS AND
THE THE MOVE TOWARDS
SIMPLIFICATION AND KIND
OF HARMONIZATION I THINK MAKES
A WHOLE LOT OF SENSE.
>> SO THANK YOU FOR THIS.
I AM SUPPORTIVE OF ALL OF THESE
CHANGES.
COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT, I
WOULD LIKE TO ECHO EVERYTHING
THAT COMMISSIONER MILLS JUST
SAID AND ALSO THANK YOU TO
OXFORD FOR BRINGING THIS.
I THINK WE ALL KNEW THAT THIS
IS GOING TO BE KIND OF A ZONING
IN PROGRESS AS WE HAVE GOT
PETITION.
>> SO I THINK THESE ARE REALLY
GOOD CHANGES AND I JUST WANT TO
ALSO COMMEND PLANNER DELIO FOR
WHAT THIS IS A LOT OF EXTRA
WORK SO YOU START SO THE 70
PERCENT FRONTAGE YOU START
SHOWING THESE IMAGES AND I'M
LIKE NO, YOU'RE NOT GOING TO
CONVINCE ME.
AND BY THE END I WAS LIKE OH OK
.
>> KNOW YEAH, THIS MAKES A LOT
OF SENSE.
SO THANK YOU FOR GOING ABOVE
AND BEYOND AND ALSO FOR AS YOU
SAID, MAKING IT LESS DIFFICULT
TO INTERPRET ZONING AND DO
DEVELOPMENT HERE IN ANN ARBOR.
>> SO I AM ALSO SUPPORTIVE
OF ALL OF THESE CHANGES
.
COMMISSIONER, WHETHER IT BE SO
I WANT TO ECHO ALL THOSE I DO
WANT TO SAY THAT I AM
INTERESTED TO SEE WHAT REMOVING
THE 70 PERCENT LOOKS LIKE
BECAUSE ON THESE SPOTS WHERE
WAS LESS THAN 70 PERCENT AS
PRIMARILY A PEDESTRIAN, I KIND
OF HAD A LITTLE BIT OF A I
DON'T LIKE WALKING BY THAT
STUFF AND I LIKE THE HUNDRED
PERCENT ACTUALLY.
>> YEAH.
AND SO UH, I'M NOT IT DOES IT'S
NOT THAT I'M NOT GOING TO VOTE
FOR IT BECAUSE OF THAT BUT I DO
I WILL BE INTERESTED TO SEE HOW
THAT WORKS BECAUSE I AM A
LITTLE NERVOUS OF SAYING YEAH
YOU DON'T NEED TO MATCH ANY
OF IT.
IT'S YOU KNOW I I I'M A LITTLE
NERVOUS ABOUT THAT BUT I THINK
IT DOES MAKE SENSE.
I DON'T KNOW THAT SEVENTY
PERCENT IS SOMETHING THAT WE
NEED TO CODIFY BUT THAT IS THAT
IS ONE WHERE I UNDERSTAND WHY
WE PUT IT IN INITIALLY AND I AM
A LITTLE NERVOUS ABOUT REMOVING
IT ENTIRELY BUT I DON'T I'M NOT
GOING TO SAY WELL SIXTY SEVEN
PERCENT IS BETTER.
SO I MEAN I DON'T THINK WE KNOW
A BETTER NUMBER.
SO I THINK IT MAKES SENSE TO
REMOVE AT THIS POINT.
BUT COMMISSIONER ADAMS
, AS WE
WERE GOING THROUGH THE EXAMPLES
AND I WAS ONE OF THE ONES AT
THE EARLIER SESSION THAT WAS
PRETTY INSISTENT WE NEEDED TO
MAINTAIN THE FRONT EDGE.
IT STRUCK ME THAT IT MATTERED
MORE THE TYPE OF FRONTAGE
RATHER THAN THE PERCENTAGE.
RIGHT THAT AND AS I'M GOING
THROUGH THE TISSUE ONE DISTRICT
REQUIREMENTS, I THINK THE OTHER
REQUIREMENTS ARE GOING TO DO
MORE THE LIFTING THERE THAN THE
PERCENT.
SO THAT THAT I THINK YOU MADE
THE CASE COUNCIL MEMBER DISH.
>> YEAH, I WOULD SAY THAT THE
SETBACK SEEMED TO MAKE MORE
OF A DIFFERENCE THEN HOW MUCH
OF A BUILDING THERE WAS BUT UM
IT IT WOULDN'T BE A PLANNING
COMMISSION MEETING IF I DIDN'T
SAY THERE WAS SOMETHING I
DIDN'T UNDERSTAND WHICH MAY BE
OBVIOUS TO THE REST OF YOU BUT
SO I'M I'M JUST CONFUSED ABOUT
THE THIS LANGUAGE I'LL JUST
READ THE SENTENCE UM I I LIKE
THE IDEA OF APPLYING THE
EXISTING D ONE PARKING
STRUCTURE STANDARD TO TAKE ONE
THAT MAKES SENSE TO ME BUT WITH
THE CLARIFICATION THAT IN BOTH
DISTRICTS THE FIRST FLOOR OF A
PARKING STRUCTURE, A ADJACENT
TO A STREET DESIGNATED AS
PRIMARY TRANSIT CORRIDOR IN
OTHER WORDS IT'S NOT A LONG
PRIMARY OR TRANSIT CORRIDOR
MUST THAT THAT THAT A PARKING
STRUCTURE MUST BE A PERMITTED
PRIMARY USE AT LEAST TWENTY
FIVE FEET DEEP.
WAIT I DON'T LIKE HOW IS DEEP
MEASURED IS IT IS INTO THE
PARCEL INTO THE PARCEL.
>> OK AND UM WHAT WHY IS THIS
SO IMPORTANT UM WITHOUT USING
THE WORD ACTIVE FIRST FLOOR
USES IT'S GETTING AT ACTIVE
FORCE FOR USES IT IS SAYING
THAT A PARKING STRUCTURE IN
THIS ENVIRONMENT DOWNTOWN OR DC
ONE IS OK BUT WE WANT THE
PEDESTRIAN EXPERIENCE TO BE ANY
PERMITTED PRINCE PRIMARY USE
COFFEE SHOP, RETAIL SHOP
OFFICE, EVEN A BANK BUT WE
DON'T SO IT'S LIKE YOU'RE
WALKING PAST A REAL BUILDING
AND BEYOND IN THE BACK OF THAT
YOU AND PARK CARS ON THAT FIRST
FLOOR AND ABOVE YOU CAN PARK
CARS ON THE FIRST FLOOR.
BUT WHAT IT'S GETTING AT IS AN
ACTIVE FIRST FLOOR ACTIVE
PEDESTRIAN EXPERIENCE OF NOT
PARKING STRUCTURE FOR THAT
PORTION AND WE HADN'T ALREADY
SAID THAT WE WELL THE WE DID IF
YOU'RE LOOKING AT THE ORDINANCE
SUBSECTION THREE WAS TCDD
DISTRICT AND IT SAID ROUGHLY
THE SAME THING IT SAID THE OFF
STREET PARKING STRUCTURE
ADJACENT TO THE STREET BUT ANY
AND EVERY STREET MUST BE FIRST
FLOOR ACTIVE USE FOR
DESCRIPTIVE PURPOSES AND THE
REQUEST FROM IN THE PETITION
WAS TO CHANGE THAT ONE TO THE
FIRST FLOOR ON A TRANSIT
CORRIDOR.
SO IF YOU ARE ON A NOT TRANSIT
CORRIDOR ON A SIDE STREET IF
YOU WILL, CAN WE HAVE A FIRST
FLOOR?
>> CAN WE HAVE FIRST FLOOR
PARKING THERE AND AND THEN THEN
ADDED EDITING THE DOCUMENT AND
SAY WELL IF WE'RE GOING TO MAKE
TAXI ONE DISTRICT SAY IT'S THE
FIRST FLOOR OF A PARKING
STRUCTURE ADJACENT TO A TRANSIT
CORRIDOR, THEN THAT LANGUAGE
LOOKS SO SIMILAR TO D ONE.
LET'S COMBINE TWO PARAGRAPHS
.
THANK YOU.
I THINK I AM FOLLOWING I CAN
KEEP TALKING ALL NIGHT LONG.
>> ANY OTHER COMMISSIONERS
SAYING NOTHING?
>> CAN WE MOVE TO A ROLL-CALL
VOTE
ON THE MOTION AS PRESENTED
?
UH WISCH YES.
HAMMERSCHMIDT YES.
THIS YES.
MELS YES.
WETHERBEE YES.
ATOM'S YES.
NORTON YES.
>> UH CARRISI THAT WOULD BE
GREAT.
>> UH, WHY DON'T WE TAKE TWO
MINUTE OR NO MORE THAN FIVE
MINUTES BUT TRY TO MAKE IT TWO
MINUTES UH BREAK TO THE
BATHROOM, STRETCH YOUR LEGS AS
WE GET CERULLI BACK IN THE ROOM
.
>> RIGHT.
I'M GOING TO GO GO AHEAD AND
CALL THE MEETING BACK TO ORDER.
WE ARE HEADING INTO OTHER
BUSINESS.
THIS IS AGENDA ITEM TEN.
>> THIS IS THE ANNUAL
ORGANIZATION MEETING ACTION.
THE UNIVERSITY PLANNING
COMMISSION IS DIRECTED TO
UNDERTAKE A SERIES
ORGANIZATIONAL MEASURES ON AN
ANNUAL BASIS TO COMPLY WITH THE
PROVISIONS THE COMMISSION'S
BYLAWS.
THIS INCLUDES ANNUAL ELECTIONS
OF OFFICERS REVIEWING THE
BYLAWS AND CONFIRMING THE
SUBCOMMITTEE ASSIGNMENTS WITH
THAT I AM GOING TO MOVE TO
STAFF PRESENTATION.
>> I'M HAPPY TO WALK THROUGH
THE REPORT.
THIS IN YOUR PACKET IT WAS
UPDATED UH ROUND FIVE PM FIVE
THIRTY PM TODAY DUE TO UPDATED
OPINION FROM OUR CITY
ATTORNEY'S OFFICE ABOUT HOW WE
SHOULD BE PROCEEDING WITH
VOTING TODAY.
SO INSTEAD OF A BALLOT WILL BE
MORE SIMILAR TO HOW YOU VOTED
IN THE PAST AND THEN WE CAN
LOOK AT OPPORTUNITIES TO
POTENTIALLY CHANGE YOUR BYLAWS
IF YOU'D LIKE MORE FLEXIBILITY
IN THE FUTURE.
>> SO I'M I'M HAPPY TO WALK
THROUGH THAT.
>> UH, REPORT UPON REQUEST.
>> BUT THE FIRST ITEM IN YOUR
ANNUAL ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING
IS TO ELECT OFFICERS.
YOU HAVE THREE OFFICERS FOR THE
COMMISSION CHAIR, VICE CHAIR
SECRETARY AND THE BYLAWS DO
SPECIFY THAT REGARDLESS OF ,
UH, CHANGES TO OFFICERS OR FOR
THAT MATTER TO YOUR BYLAWS OR
YOUR SUBCOMMITTEE THROUGHOUT
THE REST OF THE YEAR THAT YOUR
FIRST REGULAR MEETING IN JULY
SHOULD ALWAYS INCLUDE THESE
THINGS.
>> SO THAT'S WHY YOU'RE SEEING
THEM TODAY FOR THE FIRST ITEM
WHICH IS THE ELECTION CURRENT
OFFICERS WHO HAVE SERVED TWO
SUCCESSIVE TERMS ARE NOT
ELIGIBLE, WHICH MEANS THAT
COMMISSIONER ABRAM'S CAN NO
LONGER SERVE AS VICE CHAIR AND
CITY COUNCIL EX OFFICIO MEMBERS
OF WHICH WE HAVE ONE COUNCIL
MEMBER DISH IS NOT ELIGIBLE TO
BE ON YOUR EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
.
>> UH, THERE WAS A SURVEY THAT
WAS DISTRIBUTED THANK YOU SO
MUCH FOR YOUR TIMELY RESPONSES.
>> TRIED TO MAKE IT AS QUICK
AND PAINLESS AS POSSIBLE AND
THE STAFF REPORT IS UPDATED
WITH THOSE COMMISSIONERS WHO
SAID THEY WOULD BE WILLING TO
ACCEPT NOMINATION.
>> THERE'S A PROPOSED PROCESS
AND YOUR CHAIR HAS A SCRIPT TO
WALK YOU ALL THROUGH IT.
GREAT.
THANK YOU.
ALL RIGHT.
WE WILL NOW PROCEED WITH THE
ELECTION OF OFFICERS.
>> I'LL START BY PRESENTING THE
LIST OF COMMISSIONERS WILLING
TO ACCEPT NOMINATIONS FOR EACH
POSITION OR CHAIR.
LEE AND WHITES HAVE EXPRESSED
WILLINGNESS TO SERVE FOR VICE
CHAIR NORTON HAMMERSCHMIDT, LEE
WHITE AND MILLS IF NEEDED.
I'VE EXPRESSED WILLINGNESS TO
SERVE HER SECRETARY YEAH FOR
SECRETARY NORTON HAMMERSCHMIDT,
LEE WHITE AND MILLS AGAIN IF
NEEDED HAVE EXPRESSED
WILLINGNESS TO SERVE SO WILL
BEGIN WITH NOMINATIONS FOR THE
CHAIR.
>> ARE THERE ANY NOMINATIONS
FROM THE FLOOR
?
>> OK, I'M GOING TO GO AHEAD
AND ALLOW A LITTLE MORE TIME.
>> OK MR. MILLS THIS SO BECAUSE
I DON'T REMEMBER THIS PROCESS
FROM THIS IS WHERE WE KNOW WHO
IS INTERESTED SOMEONE NEEDS TO
NOMINATE SOMEONE.
>> YEAH OK OK.
CORRECT.
SO I FOR CHAIR I NOMINATE
COMMISSIONER LEE FOR CHAIR.
THANK YOU.
I ACCEPT THERE ARE OTHER
NOMINATIONS FROM THE FLOOR.
>> CAN I JUST SAY I WISH MR.
NORTON I PUT MY NAME IN THE
LIST BUT I'M TOTALLY HAPPY TO
NOT SERVE.
I WAS JUST TRYING TO
WILLINGNESS TO IF NOBODY ELSE
WAS WILLING TO BUT BEING THE
NEW KID ON THE BLOCK I'M
TOTALLY ON THE LIST.
>> I'M TOTALLY HAPPY FOR
SOMEONE WHO'S BEEN ON THE
COMMISSION FOR A WHILE AND TO
TAKE ON THOSE ROLES SO IT'S TOO
LATE.
>> I KNOW I'M JUST KIDDING.
DO YOU WANT NOMINATIONS FOR
EACH OFFICE NOW?
>> I THINK THIS IS SPECIFICALLY
FOR CHAIR NOW.
UM, DO WE HAVE OTHER
NOMINATIONS FROM THE FLOOR?
>> OH YES.
I'M I WILL NOMINATE
COMMISSIONER WHICH I THINK YOU
NEED ACCEPT I ACCEPT I ACCEPT
GOCHA ARE THERE ANY OTHER
NOMINATIONS FROM FLOOR.
>> ALL RIGHT HEARING NONE.
>> I DECLARE NOMINATIONS FOR
CHAIR CLOSED.
>> WOULD SOMEONE LIKE TO MAKE A
MOTION TO PROCEED TO THE
ELECTION OF THE CHAIR?
UM THANK YOU.
YOU MOVE A COMMISSIONER OR A
COUNCIL MEMBER DISH MOVE THAT
WE PROCEED TO THE ELECTION
OF THE CHAIR.
>> IS THERE A SECOND MR.
HAMMERSCHMIDT?
>> IT HAS BEEN MOVED AND
SECONDED THAT WE PROCEED TO THE
ELECTION OF THE CHAIR.
ALL THOSE IN FAVOR SAY AY AY.
>> THOSE OPPOSED SAY NO AYES
HAVE IT AND WE WILL NOW PROCEED
TO THE ELECTION.
>> WE WILL USE A ROLL-CALL VOTE
WHEN I CALL YOUR NAME PLEASE
CLEARLY STATE YOUR CHOICE FOR
CHAIR AND REMEMBER A CANDIDATE
NEEDS A MAJORITY OF THE ENTIRE
COMMISSION MEMBERSHIP TO WIN.
>> I WILL GO TO STAFF.
LEE UH UH YOU STATE THE NAME
OF YOUR PREFERRED CANDIDATE,
COMMISSIONER LEE MYSELF YOU
CONSIDER MYSELF WISCH MYSELF
MELS LEE HAMMERSCHMIDT LEE THIS
LEE WHETHER IT BE LEE ADAMS,
LEE NORTON LEE OKAY.
GIVE ME ONE MOMENT SIX SEVEN
MEMBERS WAIT.
THANK YOU.
ALL RIGHT.
UM THANK YOU COMMISSIONER.
>> YES I LIKED IT FOR ONE MORE
YEAR I HAVE RECEIVED A MAJORITY
OF THE VOTES ELECTED AS CHAIR
WILL NOW MOVE ON TO THE
ELECTION OF THE VICE CHAIR.
>> UM COUNCIL MEMBER DESH I
WOULD LIKE TO NOMINATE
COMMISSIONER WHITE.
>> WOULD YOU LIKE TO ACCEPT?
YES.
I ACCEPT WE HAVE OTHER
NOMINATIONS FROM THE FLOOR.
>> OH GOD
.
ARE THERE FURTHER NOMINATIONS
FOR VICE CHAIR HEARING?
NONE.
I DECLARE NOMINATIONS FOR VICE
YOU'RE CLOSED WITH SOMEONE LIKE
TO MAKE A MOTION TO PROCEED TO
THE ELECTION OF THE VICE CHAIR
COUNCIL MEMBER DESH SECONDED BY
UH COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT.
I BELIEVE THAT UM IT WAS
REMOVED AND SECONDED THAT WE
PROCEED TO THE ELECTION OF THE
VICE CHAIR.
>> ALL THOSE IN FAVOR SAY I
THOSE OPPOSED SAY NO.
>> THE AYES HAVE IT WILL NOW
PROCEED TO THE ELECTION.
UM, GIVEN THAT IT IS A VOICE
VOTE IS FINE ALL THOSE IN FAVOR
OF COMMISSIONER WYTCHES VICE
CHAIR SAY I I AND YOUR POST
CONGRATULATIONS THE
COMMISSIONER OUR NEW VICE
CHAIR.
WE WILL NOW MOVE ON TO THE
ELECTION OF SECRETARY.
>> WE'LL BEGIN WITH THE
NOMINATIONS.
ARE THERE ANY NOMINATIONS FOR
THE FLOOR?
>> UH, COMMISSIONER MILLS', I
NOMINATE COMMISSIONER
HAMMERSCHMIDT FOR SECRETARY.
>> I WILL ACCEPT THIS TIME.
WELL, THANK YOU.
UH, YEAH.
ARE THERE ARE THERE ARE OTHER
NOMINATIONS FROM THE FLOOR
.
I'M GOING TO SAY ONE MORE TIME
ARE THERE ANY OTHER NOMINATIONS
FROM THE FLOOR HEARING?
>> NONE.
I DECLARE NOMINATIONS FOR
SECRETARY CLOSE WITH SOMEONE
LIKE TO MAKE A MOTION TO
PROCEED TO THE ELECTION
COMMISSIONER WHICH AND SECONDED
BY UM COMMISSIONER WHETHER IT
BE IT HAS BEEN MOVED AND
SECONDED THAT WE PROCEED TO THE
ELECTION OF SECRETARY ALL THOSE
IN FAVOR SAY AY AY THOSE
OPPOSED SAY NO, THE AYES HAVE
IT AND WE WILL NOW PROCEED TO
THE ELECTION.
>> WE WILL USE A UH ACTUALLY UM
WE'LL USE A VOICE VOTE ALL
THOSE IN FAVOR OF COMMISSIONER
HAMMERSCHMIDT AS SECRETARY SAY
I UH I AND HE OPPOSED
CONGRATULATIONS COMMISSIONER
HAMMERSCHMIDT, OUR NEW
SECRETARY WITH THAT.
I BELIEVE THAT WE ARE NOW
MOVING ON TO OUR BYLAWS.
>> LET'S SEE AFFIRMATION I MOVE
TO AFFIRM THAT THE CITY
PLANNING COMMISSION BYLAWS AS
APPROVED ON JULY 18 TWENTY
TWENTY THREE REQUIRE NO FURTHER
AMENDMENTS AND SHOULD BE
ADVANCED CITY COUNCIL AND THE
OTHER OH AND THEN THE OTHER UH
COMMISSION MOTION IS THAT THE
COMMISSIONER APPOINTMENTS
REFLECTED ON THE ATTACHMENT BE
APPROVED.
>> WE'LL TAKE THOSE TOGETHER.
UM DO I HAVE THE MOTION COUNCIL
MEMBER DESH SECONDED BY
COMMISSIONER MILLS'.
>> ALL RIGHT.
WE'RE IN DISCUSSION I BELIEVE
ONE QUESTION.
>> YES.
SO WHERE ARE THE PROPOSED
CHANGES TO OUR BYLAWS?
THEY'RE LANGUISHING IN MY TO DO
BOX UM I CAN SHARE THAT I HAVE
SUBMITTED THEM FOR CITY COUNCIL
BUT UPON LEGAL REVIEW THERE
WERE SOME PROPOSED CHANGES THAT
WERE RECOMMENDED BY THE
ATTORNEYS OFFICE AND THOSE WERE
PROVIDED SEVERAL MONTHS AGO.
THEY'VE JUST BEEN LANGUISHING.
I NEED TO MAKE THOSE PROPOSED
CHANGES.
I I CAN ASSURE THAT THE
PROPOSED CHANGE WOULD BE TO
ONLY, UM, EXEMPT ANNEXATIONS
FROM
PLANNING COMMISSION REVIEW
BEFORE THEY GO TO CITY COUNCIL
THE BASIS FOR THAT IS STATE LAW
DOES REQUIRE UM DESPITE MY
EFFORTS TO THE CONTRARY THAT
ANY ZONING RECOMMENDATION DOES
REQUIRE A RECOMMENDATION BY THE
PLANNING COMMISSION.
NONETHELESS, IT'LL STILL
PROVIDE SOME EXPEDITED PROCESS
SO PEOPLE INTERESTED IN THAT
CAN PROGRESS RIGHT TO CITY
COUNCIL FOR ANNEXATION RATHER
THAN UM SORT OF A TWO STEP
PROCESS WITH CITY COUNCIL AFTER
ALL OF THE ANALYSIS HAS BEEN
DONE.
OK WITH THAT UM I WOULD LIKE TO
UM NOTE THAT COMMISSIONER
NORTON B PROPOSED FOR THE
ORDINANCE REVISIONS COMMISSION
UM I THINK IT'S A GREAT FIT
GIVEN HIS BACKGROUND AS YOU
HAVE A LOT OF DEGREES AT THE AS
UH AS A LAWYER AS WELL AS A
PROFESSOR OF PLANNING.
I THINK THIS WOULD BE A GREAT
MOVE ASIDE FROM THAT, I THINK
THERE ARE NO OTHER PROPOSALS
CHANGES UNLESS THERE ARE
OTHERS.
>> OH, COMMISSIONER MILT'S JUST
TO NOTE THAT I ASSUME THAT THE
COMMITTEE ASSIGNMENTS WILL LIKE
THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
ASSIGNMENTS WILL CHANGE.
YES.
TO REFLECT THE ELECTIONS THAT
JUST TOOK PLACE.
YES.
THAT IS CORRECT.
>> AND I GUESS THIS IS A
QUESTION FOR STAFF BEFORE I GET
MY MICROPHONE ABOUT WHETHER
THERE'S A PROBLEM HAVING LIKE
HAVING A SUBCOMMITTEE IF
THERE'S NOT THE CITY COUNCIL IS
DIRECTED ALL SUBCOMMITTEES.
THAT'S WHY ORDINANCE REVISIONS
COMMITTEE AND ONE IS NOTICED
UNDER THE OPEN MEETINGS ACT.
SO BECAUSE THAT DIRECTION BY
THE CITY COUNCIL IF TYPICALLY
IF IT WAS LESS THAN A QUORUM
THAT WOULD NOT BE REQUIRED BY
STATE LAW BUT BECAUSE OF PRIOR
CITY COUNCIL RESOLUTION
DIRECTION WE HAVE TO DO THAT.
SO WHETHER THERE IS A SUB
QUORUM OR A QUORUM IS
IRRELEVANT.
>> GREAT COUNCIL, NO DISH.
>> THANK YOU.
I JUST WANTED TO SAY THAT THE
ENVIRONMENTAL COMMISSION HAS
NOTICED THAT SHANNON WAS NEVER
REPLACED AND THAT THEY ARE NOW
THEY ONLY HAVE ME WHICH THEY
WONDERED ABOUT THAT AND I AM
VERY HAPPY TO CONTINUE TO SERVE
OFFERING REPORTS FROM THIS
COMMISSION TO THEM.
BUT I FELT THAT I SHOULD REPORT
TO YOU THAT BECAUSE I'M ALREADY
A MEMBER OF THAT COMMISSION
THEY DON'T ENTIRELY THEY FEEL
THAT WE ARE PERHAPS BEING A
LITTLE BIT TOO REPURPOSING IN
THIS ACTION.
>> BUT IT MAKES SENSE TO ME
BECAUSE WE HAVE A LOT OF WORK
GOING ON AND WE HAVE THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN HAPPENING
AND SO PEOPLE ON THIS
COMMISSION ARE REALLY TAXED AND
IT MAKES SENSE, YOU KNOW, TO DO
IT THIS WAY FOR I GUESS FOR
THAT FROM MY PERSPECTIVE FOR
THE TIME BEING I THINK IT DOES
MAKE SENSE IF YOU'RE WILLING TO
SERVE IN THAT ROLE.
I THINK IN THE PAST WE HAD
DISCUSSED THAT COMMISSIONER
BRANDELL AT THE TIME ALSO HAD A
PARTICULAR AREA OF EXPERTIZE
AROUND THAT.
SO I THINK THAT THERE WAS SOME
THAT WAS A FACTOR AND HAVING A
COUPLE OF REPRESENTATIVES AT
THAT TIME.
BUT UNLESS ANOTHER COMMISSIONER
WANTS TO ADD TO THEIR COMMITTEE
WORKLOAD IF YOU'RE WILLING TO
DO THAT, I THINK THAT WOULD BE
GREAT AND THEN I JUST COMMIT
STAFF PERSPECTIVE TO YOU IF
THERE'S INFORMATION THAT YOU
FEEL THAT THEY'RE ASKING FOR
THAT WE CAN HELP PROVIDE FROM
THE PLANNING COMMISSION
PERSPECTIVE, WE'RE HAPPY TO
ASSIST WITH THAT AS WELL.
WOULD ANYONE COMMISSIONER
HAMMERSCHMIDT, THIS MIGHT BE
MORE APPROPRIATE FOR NEXT
TUESDAY'S COMP PLAN
SUBCOMMITTEE MEETING AND SO YOU
CAN STOP ME IF IT IS.
>> BUT YOU KNOW THE THE
DESIGNEES FROM THAT COMMITTEE
TO THIS ONE THAT'S HAPPENING
TOMORROW WE'RE DOWN ONE NOW >>
WE ARE YEAH.
WE COULD ADD IF PLANNING
COMMISSION WOULD LIKE TO POINT
IT WAS PREVIOUSLY COMMISSIONER
HAMMERSCHMIDT AND COMMISSIONER
CLARK UPON COMMISSIONER CLARK'S
RESIGNATION WE ONLY HAVE ONE
PLANNING COMMISSION MEMBER THAT
IS ON THE SUBCOMMITTEE AND THE
STEERING COMMITTEE ON JAZZERS
REMINDED OF THE STEERING
COMMITTEE IS COMPRISED
OF APPOINTMENTS OF APPLICANTS
FROM THE COMMUNITY THAT HAD
EXPRESSED AN INTEREST IN
HELPING TO GUIDE AND PROVIDE
FEEDBACK ON WHO WE TALK TO,
MAKE SURE WE'RE PROCESSING
FEEDBACK CORRECTLY AND REALLY
BE A REALLY HELPFUL SOUNDING
BOARD FOR US AS WE GO THROUGH
THIS PROCESS AND YOU AS THE
PLANNING COMMISSION.
SO IF ANOTHER COMMISSIONER IS
INTERESTED IN PARTICIPATING IN
THAT AS WELL, WE COULD
CERTAINLY ACCOMMODATE IT.
OTHERWISE THE WAIT WILL LIE
SQUARELY ON COMMISSIONER
HAMMERMAN'S SHOULDERS.
SO WE DON'T NEED TO WE DON'T
NEED TO OK YEAH BUT IT'S SUPER
FUN.
>> COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT
IS CAPABLE SHOULDER IS ANY
OTHER COMMENTS ON THE
ASSIGNMENTS?
AND I WOULD JUST SAY THAT THE
OPERATION IS ONGOING IF NOBODY
IS SURE OF THAT NOW BUT YOU
REFLECT ON IT YOU WOULD LIKE TO
GET INVOLVED.
WE CAN ALWAYS BRING IT TO A
FUTURE MEETING.
>> THANK YOU COMMISSIONER.
I'M HAPPY TO TAKE CLARKES
POSITION ON THAT SUBCOMMITTEE.
OK, LET'S ADD THAT TO THE
APPOINTMENT THEN RIGHT.
ALL RIGHT.
SO
IT'S IN THE FIRST OK TO
REFLECT KIND OF A RECAP WE HAVE
COMMISSIONER NORTON JOINING THE
ORDINANCE REVISIONS COMMISSION.
WE'RE GOING TO BE UPDATING THE
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE BASED ON
THE LATEST ROUND WE HAVE OUR
MEMBERS CONTINUING TO REPRESENT
US TO THE ENVIRONMENTAL
COMMISSION.
THERE'S NO CHANGE THERE.
AND THEN COMMISSIONER WHICH IS
JOINING THE THE SUBCOMMITTEE
FOR THE COMPLINE SERIES
STEERING COMMITTEE, THANK YOU
FOR THE CLARIFICATION WITH THAT
.
DO I HAVE A I THINK WE ACTUALLY
GO TO A VOTE UM YOU MIGHT WANT
TO AMEND THE MOTION INSTEAD
OF ON THE ATTACHMENT AS
APPROVED TO AS APPROVED SUBJECT
TO UPDATING THE EXECUTIVE
COMMITTEE AND THE NEW
APPOINTMENT TO THE PLAN GOT
STEERING COMMITTEE AS A LIAISON
GOT IT MOVED BY COMMISSIONER
MILLS, SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER
WHETHER IT BE ALL RIGHT.
>> WE'RE IN DISCUSSION OF THE
AMENDMENT OF THE MOTION WHICH
IS AS DISCUSSED AFOREMENTIONED
OK, ALL THOSE IN FAVOR SAY I I
AND WE MEANT THAT WITH A VOICE
VOTE THAT THAT'S JUST THE
AMENDMENT THE MOTION.
>> OK, GREAT.
ANY OPPOSED TO THE AMENDMENT
OF THE PROPOSED CITY PLANNING
COMMISSION COMMITTEE LIAISON'S
AS AMENDED AND THEN NOW WE GO
TO A VOICE VOTE.
>> THANK YOU
O A VOICE VOTE
INSTEAD OF A ROLL CALL VOTE
THEN YOU COULD DO THAT MR.
CHAIRMAN.
>> OK, GOT IT.
THANK YOU.
ALL THOSE IN FAVOR SAY I I AND
OPPOSED THE AYES HAVE IT.
>> ALL RIGHT.
WE'RE MOVING ON TO PUBLIC
COMMENT.
THIS IS A SECOND OPPORTUNITY
FOR INDIVIDUALS TO SPEAK UP THE
THREE MINUTES ON ANY ISSUE WE
WILL FIRST HEAR FROM THOSE
PRESENT THEN REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS AND TO SPEAK
REMOTELY PLEASE PRESS STAR ON
THE PHONE OR USE A PHRASE HAND
FEATURE ON ZOOME FOR PHONE
ACCESS PLEASE CALL EIGHT SEVEN
SEVEN EIGHT FIVE THREE FIVE TO
FOUR SEVEN AND INTERMEETING ID
NINE SEVEN SEVEN SIX SIX THREE
FOUR ONE TWO TWO SIX.
CITY STAFF WILL IDENTIFY
CALLERS BY THE LAST THREE
DIGITS OF THE PHONE NUMBER OR
BY NAME FOR ZOOM YOU'LL HEAR AN
AUTOMATED ANNOUNCEMENT WHEN
IT'S YOUR TURN TO SPEAK AND
PLEASE ENSURE THAT YOU'RE IN A
QUIET AREA FOR ALL
PARTICIPANTS.
>> PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING
OF YOUR COMMENTS.
>> IS THERE ANYONE HERE WHO
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
TIME?
MR. BARBER?
>> THANK YOU CHARLIE AND
CONGRATULATIONS TO YOU AND
COMMISSIONER WISCH AND
COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT.
>> THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU AND THANK YOU
EVERYONE FOR YOUR WORK TONIGHT
.
>> JUST TO COMPLETE THE THOUGHT
I HAD IN MY EARLIER PUBLIC, I'M
ASKING FOR SOME CONSIDERATION
OF REVISING THE DEFINITION
OF SUSTAINABILITY COMPONENT AS
REFERRED TO IN SECTION FIVE
EIGHTEEN FORTY ONE BECAUSE IT'S
NOT ACHIEVING ITS INTENDED AIM
OF PROMOTING SUSTAINABILITY IN
BUILDINGS FOR A FEW TOKEN
MEASURES WHICH DEVELOPERS CAN
GO 30 PERCENT HIGHER THAN THE
ONE AND TWO, I SUGGEST CHANGING
THE DEFINITION TO 4X4 LOCATION
AT THE TIME OF APPROVAL.
SO THANKS FOR YOUR
CONSIDERATION.
>> SO YOU KNOW COMMISSIONER
ADAMS EARLIER RAISED THE
QUESTION OF ENDING OUR REVIEW
OF LIBRARY PROJECTS AND I
UNDERSTAND THE FRUSTRATION BUT
I THINK THE ALWAYS HIGH REVIEW
IS INTENDED TO INFORM
DEVELOPERS PETITIONERS ABOUT
THE ELEMENTS OF THE ZERO PLAN.
THIS IS THE CLIMATE ACTION PLAN
THAT CITY COUNCIL ADOPTED BACK
IN JUNE TWENTY TWENTY
PRESUMABLY MAYBE NOT IN EVERY
PARTICULAR BUT IN AGGREGATE
REFLECTS THE CONSENSUS OF THE
COMMUNITY AND SO THE REVIEWS
YOU KNOW, I THINK ARE INTENDED
TO COMMUNICATE THE ELEMENTS
OF THEIR PLAN TO DEVELOPERS AS
REGARDS THE PARTICULARS
OF THEIR PROJECTS.
>> YOU KNOW, COMMISSIONER ADAMS
MENTIONED A COUPLE OF REASONS
NOT TO DO IT A WASTE OF STAFF'S
TIME AND IT CONTRIBUTES TO A
MISUNDERSTANDING ON THE PART
OF THE PUBLIC OF THE ROLE OF OF
THIS PROCESS AND YOU KNOW, I
THINK THAT JOE LANG WHO DOES
THESE REVIEWS I WOULD DOUBT IT
TAKES MORE THAN AN HOUR OR TWO
PER PROJECT BUT I'M NOT SURE
MIGHT BE WORTH ASKING IS THE
PUBLIC UNDERSTANDING I THINK
THE PUBLIC AT LEAST THIS PUBLIC
UNDERSTANDS COMPLETELY THAT
THESE STANDARDS AREN'T
ENFORCEABLE BY ORDINANCE AND
NOT IN OUR UDC.
>> BUT THIS REMINDS ME OF THE
THE ISSUE AROUND THE DESIGN
REVIEW BOARD.
>> I DON'T KNOW IF YOU'VE BEEN
FOLLOWING THIS BUT THERE'S BEEN
A PROPOSAL TO DISBAND OR MAKE
IT NOT REQUIRED AND THE BOARD
IS PUSHING BACK ON THAT.
THEY KNOW THAT THEY'RE
SUGGESTIONS ARE NOT BINDING BUT
THEY POINT OUT THAT THEY'VE LED
TO MANY IMPVEMENTS
VOLUNTARILY ON THE PART
OF DEVELOPERS IN THE DESIGN
STANDARDS OF THOSE BUILDINGS.
>> AND I THINK THAT ALMOST A
REVIEW CAN HAVE THE SAME EFFECT
AND HAS HAD THAT EFFECT AS HAS
THE HAS THE COMMENTS BY THIS
BOARD.
SO I'D LIKE TO KEEP OUR EYE
REVIEW OF ALL PROJECTS AND NOT
JUST PADS SO BUT YEAH, THE
PROCESS IS NOT GREAT.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU, MR. GARBER.
SEEING NO ONE ELSE DO YOU HAVE
ANY REMOTE CALLERS?
THERE ARE NO HANDS RAISED AT
THIS TIME.
OK, GIVE IT JUST A FEW MORE
SECONDS.
OK WITH THAT I'LL CLOSE PUBLIC
COMMENT.
>> WE'RE GOING TO MOVE ON TO
AGENDA NUMBER TWELVE COMMISSION
PROPOSED BUSINESSES OR ANY
COMMISSION PROPOSE BUSINESS
COUNCIL MEMBER DESH.
>> THIS IS NOT PROPOSED
BUSINESS.
>> IT'S JUST A QUESTION TO
STAFF.
>> MY UNDERSTANDING IS THAT THE
HIGH EXCEPTION REVISION OR THE
REVISION OF THE HEIGHT
EXCEPTION IT'S NOT A PREMIUM.
>> WE DON'T USE THAT WORD
ANYMORE BUT IF YOU DO THE
SUSTAINABILITY YOU GET AN EXTRA
30 PERCENT.
>> THAT REVISION WAS REQUESTED
THROUGH THE INSTRUCTION FROM
COUNCIL TO WORK ON THE ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCES.
AM I CORRECT IN THAT OR YEAH I
BELIEVE THAT WAS ADDRESSED.
>> IF I COULD JUST ADDRESS I
KNOW THERE'S BEEN A LOT
OF QUESTIONS ON IT.
I JUST WANT TO SHARE HOW STAFF
HAS BEEN INTERPRETING THIS
STANDARD.
I THINK THAT THERE IS ROOM FOR
INTERPRETATION AND I WANT TO
RAISE THIS TO GET THE
COMMISSIONERS THINKING ABOUT IT
AS WELL BECAUSE THERE WILL BE
SOME PROJECTS COMING TO YOUR
TABLE THAT WILL RELY ON THAT
INTERPRETATION.
HOW I'VE INSTRUCTED MY TEAM TO
BE REVIEWING THAT IS THAT THE
STANDARD IS THAT IT PROVIDES A
BONUS IF YOU PROVIDE 60 PERCENT
AND IF NOT FULLY ELECTRIC IF
NOT CAPABLE TO BE FULLY
ELECTRIC THAT YOUR FUTURE
PROOFING THE BUILDING TO DO SO.
SO ONE OF THE THINGS THAT WE
ARE RECENTLY STARTING TO DO IS
ASK PETITIONERS TO DOCUMENT
FROM THE UTILITY PROVIDER IN
THIS CASE, CAN YOU FULLY
PROVIDE ELECTRICAL SERVICE TO
THIS BUILDING SO THAT IS HOW WE
ARE APPROACHING THAT.
I DO WANT TO BE CLEAR HOW I'VE
INSTRUCTED MY STAFF TO DO THAT
THAT I WOULD NOT EXTEND THAT TO
EMERGENCY POWER GENERATION.
SO FOR PROJECTS THAT WE ARE WE
ARE CONSIDERING THAT WOULD
REQUIRE A FULLY ELECTRIC
BUILDING IF DTC CAN DEMONSTRATE
THAT THEY CAN PROVIDE THE
CAPACITY TO DO THAT AND I WANT
TO BE CLEAR THAT I THINK THERE
WILL BE QUESTIONS THAT WILL
COME TO THIS TABLE ABOUT WHAT
THE COST ECONOMIC IMPLICATIONS
COULD BE OF THAT LONG TERM.
THAT'S WHERE WE'RE STARTING
FROM AROUND THAT ISSUE.
BUT TO YOUR QUESTION,
COUNCILMAN REDISH.
YES, I BELIEVE THAT THAT WILL
ALSO BE FORTHCOMING WITH A SET
OF OTHER PROPOSED ORDINANCE
AMENDMENTS BOTH THROUGH THIS
BODY AND ELSEWHERE.
>> SO JUST JUST AGAIN TO MAKE
SURE THAT I'M UNDERSTANDING
THAT YOU SEE ROOM TO INTERPRET
THE EXISTING STANDARD AND YOUR
INTERPRETATION OF IT HAS YOUR
YOUR READ OF IT IS THAT IT
SHOULD BE A FULLY ELECTRIC
BUILDING IF IT CAN BE WITH AN
EXCEPTION FOR EMERGENCY BACKUP
POWER.
>> THAT'S HOW THAT'S HOW I'VE
DIRECTED STAFF TO INTERPRET IT
IS IS THAT THE EXCEPTION FOR
FUTURE PROOFING THE BUILDING IS
WHEN IT CANNOT BE PROVIDED AT
THE TIME OF CONSTRUCTION, WHEN
IT CANNOT BE PROVIDED AT THE
TIME OF CONSTRUCTION AND THAT
CAN BE MEASURED IN DIFFERENT
WAYS.
BUT THAT'S THAT'S HOW I AM
STARTING TO AGAIN INSTRUCT MY
STAFF TO PRESENT THOSE
RECOMMENDATIONS TO THIS BODY.
YOU MIGHT INTERPRET THAT
DIFFERENTLY BUT THAT'S WHERE
WE'RE STARTING FROM.
SO I DO THINK THAT I WANT TO
AGREE I THINK THERE'S ROOM FOR
INTERPRETE IN THAT.
BUT I JUST WANTED TO SHARE
WE'VE RECENTLY HAD SOME
CONVERSATIONS WITH THAT AND
THAT'S THAT'S WHERE WE'RE
STARTING FROM.
>> I'M NOT CONTESTING THE
INTERPRETATION AT ALL.
I AM A I'M COGNIZANT OF THE WAY
THAT THAT INTERPRETATION
RESPONDS TO CONTEXT.
WE ARE IN A DIFFERENT CONTEXT
WHEN THAT WAS WRITTEN AND OUR
CURRENT CONTEXT IS THAT WE ARE
SEEING MORE AND MORE BUILDINGS
MANAGING TO BE FULLY
ELECTRIFIED AND LESS SAYS YOU
HAVE TO REBUILD A CIRCUIT OR
WHATEVER THAT YOU KNOW,
WHATEVER THEY CHOOSE TO TO
IMPOSE.
>> AND SO I APPRECIATE THAT
MODE OF INTERPRETATION.
THANK YOU.
ANY OTHER COMMISSION PROPOSED
BUSINESS OR CLARIFICATION?
ALL RIGHT.
SEEING NONE OR MOVING ON TO THE
FINAL ITEM WHICH IS A JUDGMENT
MOVE BY COMMISSIONER WISCH
SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER
WEATHERBEE.
ALL THOSE IN FAVOR SAY I AND
YOUR POST WE ARE ADJOURNED.
>> THANK YOU